                                                                                                             WEST VALLEY
                                                                                                             CITY
                                                                                                             Utah
          The Regular Electronic Meeting of the West Valley City Council will be held on Tuesday, January 27,
          2026, at 6:30 PM, in the City Council Chambers, West Valley City Hall, 3600 Constitution Boulevard,
           West Valley City, Utah. Members of the press and public are invited to attend in person or view this
                          meeting live on YouTube at https://www.youtube.com/user/WVCTV.


                                                                       AGENDA


           1.        Call to Order


           2.        Roll Call


           3.        Opening Ceremony: Councilmember Wood


           4.        Approval of Minutes:


                     A.        January 13, 2026


           5.        Public Comment Period:
                     (The comment period is limited to 30 minutes. Any person wishing to comment shall limit
                     their comments to three minutes. Any person wishing to comment during the comment
                     period shall request recognition by the Mayor. Upon recognition, the citizen shall
                     approach the microphone. All comments shall be directed to the Mayor. No person
                     addressing the City Council during the comment period shall be allowed to comment
                     more than once. Comments shall be limited to City business and matters within the
                     purview of the City Council. Speakers should not expect any debate with the Mayor, City
                     Council or City Staff. The Mayor, City Council or City Staff may respond after the
                     comment period has concluded. Speakers shall refrain from personal attacks against
                     fellow citizens, city staff, or members of the City Council.)



          West Valley City does not discriminate based on race, color, national origin, gender, religion, age or disability in employment or the provision of services.

If you would like to attend this public meeting and, due to a disability, need assistance in understanding or participating, please notify the City Recorder, Nichole Camac, eight
                                    or more hours in advance of the meeting and we will try to provide whatever assistance may be required.

             3600 South Constitution Boulevard | West Valley City, UT 84119 | 801-963-3203 | www.wvc-ut.gov
6.   Consent Agenda:


     A.   Ord. 26-01: Adopt an Amendment to the Fairbourne Community Reinvestment
          Area Project Area Plan to Make an Adjustment Requested by Salt Lake County


     B.   Ord. 26-02: Amend Section 1-2-107 of the West Valley City Municipal to Update
          Certain Parks and Recreation Fees


     C.   Reso. 26-01: Authorize the Execution of an Amendment to an Interlocal
          Cooperation Agreement with Salt Lake County for Services at the Harmon Senior
          Recreation Center


     D.   Reso. 26-02: Authorize the Execution of an Amendment to an Agreement with
          Taylorsville City for Animal Control Services


     E.   Reso. 26-03: Authorize the Execution of an Interlocal Cooperation Agreement with
          Salt Lake County for Access to Aerial Imagery


     F.   Reso. 26-04: Authorize the City to Enter Into a Memorandum of Agreement with
          the State of Utah to Provide Law Enforcement Services


     G.   Reso. 26-05: Approve an Amendment to a Cooperative Agreement Between the
          City and the Utah Department of Transportation and Accept a Quit Claim Deed


     H.   Reso. 26-06: Authorize the City to Enter Into a Right of Way Purchase Agreement
          and Accept a Warranty Deed with and from JSB Apex Properties, LLC for
          Property Located at 4085 South 2200 West
7.   New Business:


     A.    Reso 26-07: Authorize the City to Procure Repair and Replacement Elevator Parts
           and Services from Schindler Elevator Corporation


     B.    Elect a Mayor Pro Tem for a Two Year Term


8.   Motion for Closed Session (if necessary)


9.   Adjourn
