                                                                                                             WEST VALLEY
                                                                                                             CITY
                                                                                                             Utah


        The Regular Electronic Meeting of the West Valley City Council will be held on Tuesday, May 12, 2026,
         at 6:30 PM, in the City Council Chambers, West Valley City Hall, 3600 Constitution Boulevard, West
         Valley City, Utah. Members of the press and public are invited to attend in person or view this meeting
                             live on YouTube at https://www.youtube.com/user/WVCTV.


                                                                       AGENDA




           1.        Call to Order


           2.        Roll Call


           3.        Opening Ceremony: Councilmember Whetstone


           4.        Approval of Minutes:


                     A.        April 28, 2026


           5.        Public Comment Period:
                     (The comment period is limited to 30 minutes. Any person wishing to comment shall limit
                     their comments to three minutes. Any person wishing to comment during the comment
                     period shall request recognition by the Mayor. Upon recognition, the citizen shall
                     approach the microphone. All comments shall be directed to the Mayor. No person
                     addressing the City Council during the comment period shall be allowed to comment
                     more than once. Comments shall be limited to City business and matters within the
                     purview of the City Council. Speakers should not expect any debate with the Mayor, City
                     Council or City Staff. The Mayor, City Council or City Staff may respond after the

          West Valley City does not discriminate based on race, color, national origin, gender, religion, age or disability in employment or the provision of services.

If you would like to attend this public meeting and, due to a disability, need assistance in understanding or participating, please notify the City Recorder, Nichole Camac, eight
                                    or more hours in advance of the meeting and we will try to provide whatever assistance may be required.

             3600 South Constitution Boulevard | West Valley City, UT 84119 | 801-963-3203 | www.wvc-ut.gov
     comment period has concluded. Speakers shall refrain from personal attacks against
     fellow citizens, city staff, or members of the City Council.)


6.   Public Hearings:


     A.    Accept Public Input Regarding Application SV-1-2026, Filed by West Valley City,
           Requesting a Street Vacation for a Portion of 2300 South, Between 5700 West and
           the Eastern Edge of the Mountain View Corridor Right of Way


           Action: Consider Ordinance 26-16, Approve the Vacation for a Portion of Second
           Street (2300 South) Located Between Lester Street (5700 West) and the Mountain
           View Corridor Right of Way


7.   Consent Agenda:


     A.    26-46: Authorize the Purchase of Personal Protective Equipment from Firefighter
           Supply Co.


     B.    26-47: Approve a Memorandum of Understanding Between the City and the Utah
           Attorney General's Office to Participate in the Crimes Against State Economy Task
           Force


     C.    26-48: Designate Certain Areas Where Orders to Disperse are Authorized and
           Gang Loitering is Prohibited


     D.    26-49: Approve a Community Resource Center Grant Agreement Between the City
           and Cities Strong Foundation
     E.    26-50: Approve a Neighborhood Leadership Academy Grant Agreement Between
           the City and the Cities Strong Foundation


     F.    26-51: Approve a Logo Usage Agreement Between the City and the State of Utah
           to Participate in America250 Utah


     G.    26-52: Approve the Rental of Equipment from Utah Tents and Events


     H.    26-53: Authorize the Execution of an Interlocal Cooperation Agreement for Certain
           Design Services


8.   Motion for Closed Session (if necessary)


9.   Adjourn
