                                                                                                             WEST VALLEY
                                                                                                             CITY
                                                                                                             Utah

         The Regular Electronic Meeting of the West Valley City Council will be held on Tuesday, February 24,
         2026, at 6:30 PM, in the City Council Chambers, West Valley City Hall, 3600 Constitution Boulevard,
          West Valley City, Utah. Members of the press and public are invited to attend in person or view this
                         meeting live on YouTube at https://www.youtube.com/user/WVCTV.


                                                                       AGENDA




           1.        Call to Order


           2.        Roll Call


           3.        Opening Ceremony: Mayor Lang


           4.        Approval of Minutes:


                     A.        February 10, 2026


           5.        Public Comment Period:
                     (The comment period is limited to 30 minutes. Any person wishing to comment shall limit
                     their comments to three minutes. Any person wishing to comment during the comment
                     period shall request recognition by the Mayor. Upon recognition, the citizen shall
                     approach the microphone. All comments shall be directed to the Mayor. No person
                     addressing the City Council during the comment period shall be allowed to comment
                     more than once. Comments shall be limited to City business and matters within the
                     purview of the City Council. Speakers should not expect any debate with the Mayor, City
                     Council or City Staff. The Mayor, City Council or City Staff may respond after the


          West Valley City does not discriminate based on race, color, national origin, gender, religion, age or disability in employment or the provision of services.

If you would like to attend this public meeting and, due to a disability, need assistance in understanding or participating, please notify the City Recorder, Nichole Camac, eight
                                    or more hours in advance of the meeting and we will try to provide whatever assistance may be required.

             3600 South Constitution Boulevard | West Valley City, UT 84119 | 801-963-3203 | www.wvc-ut.gov
     comment period has concluded. Speakers shall refrain from personal attacks against
     fellow citizens, city staff, or members of the City Council.)


6.   Consent Agenda:


     A.    26-19: Approve an Executive Order to Amend the Personnel Policies and
           Procedures Manual


     B.    26-20: Approve the Purchase of Email Security Software and Services


     C.    26-21: Approve a Franchise Agreement Between Emery Telcom and West Valley
           City for a Telecommunications Network in the City


7.   Motion for Closed Session (if necessary)


8.   Adjourn
