                                                                                                                                 WEST VALLEY CITY




               The Regular Electronic Meeting of the West Valley City Council will be held on Tuesday, June
               11, 2024, at 6:30 PM, in the City Council Chambers, West Valley City Hall, 3600 Constitution
                Boulevard, West Valley City, Utah. Members of the press and public are invited to attend in
                 person or view this meeting live on YouTube at https://www.youtube.com/user/WVCTV.


                                                                             AGENDA


                1.        Call to Order


                2.        Roll Call


                3.        Opening Ceremony: Councilmember Will Whetstone


                4.        Special Recognitions


                5.        Approval of Minutes:


                          A.       June 4, 2024


                6.        Comment Period:
                          ((The comment period is limited to 30 minutes. Any person wishing to comment shall limit their
                          comments to three minutes. Any person wishing to comment during the comment period shall
                          request recognition by the Mayor. Upon recognition, the citizen shall approach the microphone.
                          All comments shall be directed to the Mayor. No person addressing the City Council during the
                          comment period shall be allowed to comment more than once. Comments shall be limited to City
                          business and matters within the purview of the City Council. Speakers should not expect any
                          debate with the Mayor, City Council or City Staff. The Mayor, City Council or City Staff may
                          respond after the comment period has concluded. Speakers shall refrain from personal attacks
                          against fellow citizens, city staff, or members of the City Council.)


 West Valley City does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, national origin, gender, religion, age or disability in employment or the provision of services.
 If you are planning to attend this public meeting and, due to a disability, need assistance in understanding or participating in the meeting, please notify the City eight or
  more hours in advance of the meeting and we will try to provide whatever assistance may be required. The person to contact for assistance is Nichole Camac.
 Electronic connection may be made by telephonic or other means. In the event of an electronic meeting, the anchor location is designated as City Council Chambers,
  West Valley City Hall, 3600 Constitution Boulevard, West Valley City, Utah.

    3600 South Constitution Boulevard, West Valley City, Utah, 84119 | Phone: 801-963-3203 | Fax: 801-963-3206

                                                           TDD: 801-963-3418 | www.wvc-ut.gov
7.   Resolutions:


     A.    24-97: Approve Amendment No. 1 to an Agreement With the Department of
           Workforce Services


     B.    24-98: Approve the Purchase of a Mobile Emergency Operations Center Trailer


     C.    24-99: Award a Contract to Stapp Construction for Construction of the West View
           Park Expansion


     D.    24-100: Authorize the Mayor to Sign a Local Government Understanding and
           Agreement for Consulting Services for Three Station Area Plans


8.   Motion for Closed Session (if necessary)


9.   Adjourn
