                                                                                                                                 WEST VALLEY CITY




                 The Regular Electronic Meeting of the West Valley City Council will be held on Tuesday,
                 February 6, 2024, at 6:30 PM, in the City Council Chambers, West Valley City Hall, 3600
               Constitution Boulevard, West Valley City, Utah. Members of the press and public are invited to
                                  attend in person or view this meeting live on YouTube at
                                          https://www.youtube.com/user/WVCTV.


                                                                             AGENDA




                1.        Call to Order


                2.        Roll Call


                3.        Opening Ceremony: Councilmember Lars Nordfelt


                4.        Special Recognitions


                5.        Approval of Minutes:


                6.        Awards, Ceremonies and Proclamations:


                          A.       Proclamation Declaring Febuary 1-7, 2024 as "World Interfaith Harmony Week" in
                                   West Valley City


                7.        Comment Period:
                          (The comment period is limited to 30 minutes. Any person wishing to comment shall limit
                          their comments to three minutes. Any person wishing to comment during the comment period
                          shall request recognition by the Mayor. Upon recognition, the citizen shall approach the

 West Valley City does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, national origin, gender, religion, age or disability in employment or the provision of services.
 If you are planning to attend this public meeting and, due to a disability, need assistance in understanding or participating in the meeting, please notify the City eight or
  more hours in advance of the meeting and we will try to provide whatever assistance may be required. The person to contact for assistance is Nichole Camac.
 Electronic connection may be made by telephonic or other means. In the event of an electronic meeting, the anchor location is designated as City Council Chambers,
  West Valley City Hall, 3600 Constitution Boulevard, West Valley City, Utah.

    3600 South Constitution Boulevard, West Valley City, Utah, 84119 | Phone: 801-963-3203 | Fax: 801-963-3206

                                                           TDD: 801-963-3418 | www.wvc-ut.gov
      microphone. All comments shall be directed to the Mayor. No person addressing the City
      Council during the comment period shall be allowed to comment more than once during that
      comment period. Speakers should not expect any debate with the Mayor, City Council or
      City Staff; however, the Mayor, City Council or City Staff may respond within the 30-minute
      period. Speakers shall refrain from personal attacks against fellow citizens, city staff, or
      members of the City Council.)


      A.    Public Comments


      B.    City Manager Comments


      C.    City Council Comments


8.    Public Hearings:


      A.    Accept Public Input Regarding the West Valley City Police Department's Acceptance
            of a Justice Assistance Grant (JAG) through the U.S. Department of Justice Programs


            Action: Consider Resolution 24-16, Authorize West Valley City to Accept the Edward
            Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant


9.    New Business:


      A.    Resolution 24-22: Ratify the Appointment of Clint Drake as the Employee Discipline
            Hearing Officer


      B.    Elect a Mayor Pro Tem


10.   Motion for Closed Session (if necessary)


11.   Adjourn
