 2017 MURRAY
GENERAL PLAN
   2017 MURRAY
  GENERAL PLAN


    PART ONE:
  MURRAY TODAY;
MURRAY TOMORROW
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
  MAYOR                         STEERING COMMITTEE
  Ted Eyre                      Ted Eyre, Mayor
                                Mark Boren, Murray City
  CITY COUNCIL                  Ray Christensen, Murray City
  Dave Nicponski, District 1    Lori Haglund
  D. Blair Camp, District 2     Jared Hall, Murray City
  Jim Brass, District 3         Jennifer Heaps, Murray City
  Diane Turner, District 4      Doug Hill, Murray City
  Brett A. Hales, District 5    Rondi Knowlton, Murray City
                                Phillip Markham
  PLANNING COMMISSION           Brad McIlrath, Murray City
  Travis Nay, Chair             Dave Nicponski, Murray City Council
  Maren Patterson, Vice Chair   Susan Nixon, Murray City
  Phillip Markham               Maren Patterson
  Buck Swaney                   Trae Stokes, Murray City
  Scot Woodbury                 Tim Tingey, Murray City
  Sue Wilson                    Janet Towers, Murray City
                                Jan Wells, Murray City
  MURRAY CITY STAFF
  Tim Tingey                    CONSULTANT TEAM
  Jared Hall                    CRSA
  Brad McIlrath                 Zions Public Finance, Inc.
  Mark Boren                    Hales Engineering
  Ray Christensen
  Susan Nixon
                 PART ONE: CONTENTS

1 - PLANNING CONTEXT
1.1   Introduction
1.2   Why Plan?
1.3   Using the Plan + Document Structure
1.4   The Big Picture
1.5   The General Plan Process

2 - COMMUNITY CONTEXT
2.1 Community History
2.2 Planning History
2.3 Regional Context
2.4 How Has Murray Changed?
2.5 Demographics

3 - FRAMEWORK FOR THE FUTURE
3.1 Murray City’s Vision
3.2 Key Initiatives & Small Area Planning Projects

4 - BEST PRACTICES
4.1 Resources + References

                                                     3
                                                                                     1 - PLANNING CONTEXT


CHAPTER ONE: PLANNING CONTEXT




1.1 INTRODUCTION

Situated in the heart of Salt Lake Valley, the proximate area now incorporated as Murray City has been
occupied continuously since 1848. Explosive growth followed the 1870 construction of the valley’s
first smelter. Over 150 years later, growth is still anticipated in the coming decades. Murray City has
experienced considerable change in the last ten years and will continue to experience change in the
future. Murray City must decide where and in what form this change and growth will occur. Murray
City recognizes it must be intentional in preparing for the future in order to provide the quality of life
current Murray residents value and future residents will desire.


1.2 WHY PLAN?

Just as a building is only as good as the foundation upon which it is built, a city’s land use decisions
and ordinances are only as good as the general plan from which they are built. The plan is the vision
for future development and growth in Murray City. A well-planned city creates a more desirable place
to live and a more sustainable city - financially, socially, and environmentally. The general plan guides
essential day-to-day decisions made by the City, working to ensure consistency and thoughtful growth
for Murray City. A city has many moving parts and a general plan provides focus to align the efforts
of individual city departments towards a common vision. It is a tool for coordinating decision-making
between city departments and with appointed and elected officials.


                                                                                                             5
    1 - PLANNING CONTEXT

     1.3 USING THE PLAN + DOCUMENT STRUCTURE

     This first part is intended to provide an up-front, user-friendly overview of the main initiatives and
     content of the general plan. The second part is anticipated more for use by city staff and officials as
     they evaluate proposals and policy changes. Collectively, they create a plan document that is designed
     to be owned and used by all.

     The plan serves many roles and user groups, providing a means of:



                                GUIDANCE TO LANDOWNERS + RESIDENTS
                                  Landowners need to know what the long-term vision is for
                                  Murray City so they can make decisions regarding their land with
                                  confidence. Residents also need knowledge of what to expect
                                  regarding the future of their surrounding area.




                                BASIS FOR INFORMED DECISIONS
                                  No one likes to feel that a city is making decisions arbitrarily. A
                                  general plan provides consistency over time for decision making.




                                EDUCATE + INFORM CITIZENS
                                  The process of preparing this general plan included an extensive
                                  public outreach effort with more than triple the participants as
                                  during the previous general plan process. The result is a general plan
                                  update created with a broad array of interests and perspectives in
                                  mind.



                                COORDINATE DECISION MAKING
                                  A city has many moving parts and a general plan provides focus to
                                  align the efforts of individual city departments towards a common
                                  vision.




6
                                                                                  1 - PLANNING CONTEXT

1.4 THE BIG PICTURE

The plan includes individual elements such as housing, transportation, economy, parks and recreation,
and land use, but these must share a collective vision for Murray’s future. The elements do not
function independently; in actuality they are interconnected and what occurs with one will usually
affect another. To address this interconnected nature, the plan is structured in two parts. Part One
captures the context and big picture for Murray’s future, reflected in a city-wide Planning, Policy, &
Design Framework and Five Key Initiatives. Part Two contains the conventional plan elements, with
strategies and implementation goals.




                                                                                                         7
    1 - PLANNING CONTEXT



                 2017 MURRAY                                                                                             INTRODUCTION


                GENERAL PLAN   INTRODUCTION
                               TELL ABOUT WHAT THIS DOCUMENT IS AND HOW TO USE IT. HOW DOES IT
                               CORRELATE TO THE GENERAL MASTER PLAN

                                                                                                                                       INTRODUCTION


               PART ONE:                                                                                                                Big Picture


             MURRAY TODAY;
                                                                                                                                        The plan includes individual elements such as housing, transportation, economy, parks and recreation,
                                                                                                                                        and land use, but these must share a collective vision for Murray’s future. The elements do not
                                                                                                                                        function independently; in actuality they are interconnected and what occurs with one will frequently/

           MURRAY TOMORROW
                                                                                                                                        usually affect another. To address this interconnected nature, we have structured the plan into two
                                                                                                                                        parts. The first captures the context and big picture for Murray’s future, reflected in a City-wide
                                                                                                                                        Planning, Policy, & Design Framework and Five Key Initiatives. The second part contains best practices
                                                                                                                                        and the individual plan elements.




                               INTRODUCTION TO MURRAY CITY

                               Situated in the heart of Salt Lake Valley, Murray City is a namesake of Utah’s territorial governor Eli
                               Murray. The proximate area now incorporated as Murray City has been occupied continuously since
                               1848. Explosive growth followed the 1870 construction of the valley’s first smelter. Over 150 years
                               later there is still growth anticipated in the coming decades. Murray City has experienced considerable
                               change in the last ten years and will continue to experience change in the future. Murray City must
                               decide where and in what form this change and growth will occur. Murray City recognizes it must be
                               intentional in preparing for the future in order to provide the quality of life current Murray residents
                               value and future residents will desire.

                               CONCEPTION OF THE PLAN

                               On June 27, 2003 the Murray City Council adopted the previous general plan. Through requirements of
                               Utah State Code, cities must regularly update the city general plan. [insert more details on what State
                               Code requires of cities for their general plan] Murray City approached this update with enthusiasm for
                               the opportunities present in a general plan update.

                               WHY PLAN?



       PART 1
                               Why plan? Just as a building is only as good as the foundation it is built upon, a city’s land use decisions
                               and ordinances are only as good as the general plan they are built upon. The general plan is the
                               yardstick against which codes and zoning ordinances are written and land use proposals evaluated.



                               CITY OF MURRAY         2016                                                                                    5




                                                                                                                                   6                                      COMPREHENSIVE MASTER PLAN               SUMMARY/QUICK GUIDE




       PART 2




8
                                                                                    1 - PLANNING CONTEXT

1.5 THE GENERAL PLAN PROCESS

The previous general plan was adopted in 2003. In the ten years since the 2003 general plan adoption,
Murray City has experienced major changes including completion of the Intermountain Medical
Center (IMC), opening of Frontrunner commuter rail, significant reinvestment by major automobile
dealerships, and considerable expansion and reconstruction of Fashion Place Mall. Additionally,
Murray City has grown in land area and population with the annexation of areas east of 900 East
between approximately 5000 South on the north and I-215 on the south.

Major impacts from these changes are expected to continue into the future. For example,
accompanying the IMC completion was the development of supporting uses such as medical office
buildings and hotels for medical related visitors. The significance of the past ten years of progress,
along with the expectation of future change, demands a general plan update that analyzes these
changes in the community. From there, the plan takes into account these changes to update goals,
policies, and implementation measures to guide future development in the City.

To guide the update process Murray City established a Steering Committee consisting of
representatives of City Staff, City Administration, City Council, and the public. The consultant
team worked under the guidance of the Steering Committee and the Murray City Department of
Administrative and Development Services. Steering Committee members functioned as liaisons with
the public process by participating in focus groups (described in the public outreach section following).




    MURRAY GENERAL PLAN UPDATE
    Stay informed & share your ideas:
    www.PlanMurray.com
                                                                          e t,
                                                                        S
    801.270.2420


                                                     ea d y ,
                                                              N !
                                                R
                                                         P L A
                                                                                                            9
 1 - PLANNING CONTEXT

     Public Outreach + Direction for the Plan

     Public engagement in the general plan
     update process is crucial to creating a plan
     that reflects a broad representation of voices.
     This process of bringing the community
     together to craft a vision for the city creates
     the foundation of the general plan update.
     Increased attendance at public events and
                                                          Plan Murray
     broader outreach was an important goal that        Our City - Our Vision
     was achieved. The outreach process consisted
     of four main components: open houses for
     face-to-face contact; a dedicated project
     website for online feedback; focus groups
     consisting of residents, city staff, community      Public Open House
     members, business owners, and elected                Project Kick-off & Visioning
     officials; a community survey conducted                  October 9, 2014
     by the Department of Administrative and                   5:00 to 7:00 p.m.
     Development Services.                               Murray High, Spartan Cove Room




      Open House #1

      To gather ideas regarding a future vision
      for Murray, an open house was held on
      October 9, 2014 at Murray City High
      School. Information provided at the open
      house followed a progression from project
      overview information, visioning for broad
      topics such as culture, mobility/accessibility,
      neighborhoods, and resiliency to a “hive”
      board where people wrote specifics about
      what is working, not working, or missing
      on their blocks, in their neighborhoods, or
      in the city. The feedback received from the
      open house was compiled into strengths,
      opportunities, and weaknesses. From this
      analysis, top issues and priorities began to
      emerge. Approximately 20 people attended.




10
                                            1 - PLANNING CONTEXT



Open House #2

A second open house was held on April
22, 2015 at the Murray City Library. All
residents were notified with a flyer in
their city utility bill. Flyers were also
distributed in schools, at the library,
and other locations throughout the
city. This outreach led to an attendance
of about 75 people at the open house.
Attendees were presented with Twelve
Big Ideas and invited to give feedback
on each idea. A “My Neighborhood”
mapping exercise asked seven questions
about people’s neighborhoods. The
results of this exercise were used to
understand how people viewed the built
environment of the city and where there
are issues the general plan can address.




Open House #3

A third open house was held on October
21, 2015 at Cottonwood High School
to present three components of the
draft plan to the public for review and
comment: plan goals and objectives;
an overview of the five key initiatives;
and a summary of the recommended
future land use designations and the
type of development these designations
would include. Each of the components
included representation of the
comments and feedback received
during the plan process to show how
they related to the direction of the
draft recommendations. The city
and consultant team used the same
notification process as the second open
house and approximately 60 people
attended.




                                                                   11
 1 - PLANNING CONTEXT



      Open House #4

      A fourth open house was held on August
      25, 2016 at Murray City Center in the
      council chambers to present an overview
      of the general plan draft and future land
      use map to the public for review and
      comment. This final open house showed
      how comments from the previous open
      houses were incorporated into the plan.
      The city and consultant team used
      the same notification process as the
      previous open houses and approximately
      70 people signed in and nearly 90 people
      were in attendance.




     Project Website

     Recognizing that participation at a set time
     and place can be difficult for some, a dedicated
     website was established for the project. This
     site, www.planmurray.com, provided general
     information about the project and allowed
     people to contribute general comments or
     ‘pin’ specific ideas on a map. Photos and
     information from open houses were posted
     on the website for those not able to attend.
     In this way, people could participate and stay
     updated without time and place restrictions. As
     of October 2016, the website has 5,505 views
     by 1,564 unique visitors who left 89 comments,
     with over 80 of these logged on the idea map.




12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1 - PLANNING CONTEXT

Focus Groups
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Murray City General Plan Update
Targeted public engagement consisted of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    F

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                §
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ¨
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ¦

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Focus Groups: Target Areas




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          500 West
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                I-15

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        B I G C OT T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       O NW OO D C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   REE K




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Commerce Dr.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         G   CO T T ON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    BI                   W OO D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  C R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             K




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        BI G   CO T T O NW O O D C R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EEK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              FIRECLAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DEVELOPMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EK

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    BI G   CO T T O NW O OD   CR E




meeting with five community focus groups:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Street
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               COTTONWOOD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         COVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            HAMPTON




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          West
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            COMMUNITY &




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         State
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              INN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Main Street
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          500




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Commerce Dr.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             JO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       AN R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IVER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  260 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CULTURE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4500 South                                                                                                                                    4500             South
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MURRAY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4500                                        South                                                                                                                   4500                                                                         South




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Commerce Dr.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PUBLIC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SERVICES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             260




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Van Winkle Expressway
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Street
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            NEIGHBORHOODS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      State
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         F                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            §
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ¦
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ¨   I-15

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BRITTANY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              We s t




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  900
   •   Community and Culture




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       50 0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Street
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            BIKES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   East
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MT. VERNON




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Va
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           R IV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          COVE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     J O




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    South




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      State
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Sout h                                                                                                                                                             4 80 0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4800




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    kl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Murray H olla da y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    South                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Ex




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             4800                                                                                                                  Ro
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     MURRAY                                                 4800 South                                                                                                                                                                                                  ad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        pr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     POWER                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                es
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                sw
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             O O D CR EEK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    T O NW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             C OT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      B IG

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LE   COT T ON W OO D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ay
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         C REE



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       L I                                       K
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .78 Acres


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     80




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Commerce Dr.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0 South
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               BI G   CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           T T ON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    W OO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           D C R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EE   K




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   )




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ECONOMIC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Mu r




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Street
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     MURRAY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Murray Holladay
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 HUNTERS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .32 acres


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Road




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ray




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        900
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      POLICE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LITTL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             E   CO T T ON W O OD   CRE E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            K




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     WOODS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .33 Acres




   •   Downtown & Transit Oriented
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TRAINING                                                   Street




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Boule va r d
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                e




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              East
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Vin




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      State
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            MILLER ESTATES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MICK RILEY


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DEVELOPMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              POST             Vine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OFFICE                                           Stre                                                                            GOLF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      et
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            F                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    COURSE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                §
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ¦
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ¨
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CR EE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               O NW O O D           K
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LE     C OT T




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              L ITT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I-15

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     HALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              JO R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     DA N R I VER



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    POLICE                                                           KEN PRICE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BALL PARK                                Vine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           THREE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MURRAY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      FOUNTAINS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Stre
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Str eet                                                                                                                                                                                SCHOOL                                                                                                         et                                                                                                                                                                                                                              WEST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Vine                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BOY'S &




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 East
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  OFFICE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        THREE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      INTERMOUNTAIN                                                                                                                                                 GIRLS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   FOUNTAINS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CLUB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     UTAH POWER & LIGHT R.O.W.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MEDICAL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EAST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            900
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 MURRAY




       Development
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CENTER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Circ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CITY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        le
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            REC                                                      PARK                PARK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CENTER                                                   OFFICES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     HORIZON                                                                                                        CLOVER CREEK   a                                                     rd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               lev
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ELEMENTARY                                                                                                                                                  Bou                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SALT LAKE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Street
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 rra                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           COUNTY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Mu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ICE CENTER                                                                                                        PARKSIDE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Va
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MICK RILEY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               MURRAY CITY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     n Wi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ELEMENTARY                                                                                                                              GOLF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          East
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      State




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Vi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              AMPHITHEATER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ne




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         nk
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         COURSE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            L I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  T T L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          E   CO T T O NW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            O OD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CR EE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             K




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            St




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          le
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Dr.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  re




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1300
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 e                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               et
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              APPLEGATE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Expr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          East
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              F                                           erc
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CONDOMINIUMS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        §
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ¦
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ¨
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I-15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   mm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5300                                South                                                                               5300                                   South                                                                                                              5300                                                                      South




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ess
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Co




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       wa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              E




   •   Economic Development
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                LIBRARY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          900
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Ave.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              COBBLE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   5290 South                                                                                                                                                           5290    South

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CREEK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             y




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 700 West
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        rkwa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CHESTNUT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5300 South                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            HILLCREST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MURRAY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 MURRAY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TWIN PEAKS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   y Pa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PLACE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       HIGH                                                                         JR HIGH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  COURTS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ELEMENTARY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             M urra
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CONDOMINIUMS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   HIDDEN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                5400               South




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 700 West
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VILLAGE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Street
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PARK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Van
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Win
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MURRAY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    State
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CITY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  kle
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Street
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CEMETERY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          East




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Expre
                                                                                                                                                                                       R
                                                                                                                                                                                   E
                                                                                                                                                                              IV




   •   Neighborhoods




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   K
                                                                                                                                                                          R                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        E
                                                                                                                                                                     N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        RE
                                                                                                                                                                 A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        C
                                                                                                                                                             D                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OD
                                                                                                                                                         R                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  O NW O
                                                                                                                                                J O                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   T T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    L I TT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             STILLWATER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Vine




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       sswa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          900




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          East




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                F                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           5600                                                                                                 5600         South


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               §
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ¨
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ¦
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      South




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 700 West
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5600                         South
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5600           South
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I-15                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5600                                                                                                                  South
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Bullion                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      South
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Street                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5600




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1300
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Street
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Bullion Street




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Bullion
                                                                                                        AL
                                                                                                    N
                                                                                                A
                                                                                            C
                                                                                       AN
                                                                                  RD
                                                                            J O
                                                                      T H
                                                                  R
                                                             NO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Anderson      Avenue
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    COTTONWOOD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VIEWMONT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  HIGH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      East
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Street
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ELEMENTARY




   •   Bikes, Trails, and Transit




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 West
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Blv
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         d                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AMES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5770               South                                                           hio
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               n                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ACADEMY                                                                                                                                       WATERBURY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             State
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 700
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Fas                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Vin




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      900
                                                                                                                              Bullion
                                                                                                                                                                                       Street                                                                                                                                                                                          RIVERVIEW                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LITT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   L                 D C REE K


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           e                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Va
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        JR HIGH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Str                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            n
                                                     §
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       E   C OT T O NW OO




                                                     ¦
                                                     ¨                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                eet                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          W
                                                     I-215                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TOSH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            in




                                                     F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            k le




                                                         F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              RIVERVIEW                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               MEDICAL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Ex




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        pr




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CENTER                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S.L. CO.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PARK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             es




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MCMILLAN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PARK                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               sw




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         East
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ay
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ELEMENTARY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           5900                    South                                                                                                                                                                                                                             59OO     South                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     MONTE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       5900




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1300
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 South
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CARLO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Street
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          F

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        §
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ¦
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ¨
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I-15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                5900         Sou th                                                                                                                                                 5900                                    South
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Vin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     St ree t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               J O RDA N A ND S L C C A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        N AL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           State
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        L I                                      CR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Ave.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              T T                            D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      East
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    L E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VILLAGE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CO T T O NW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            E K




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           B oulevard
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            WOODSTOCK                                                                                                                                                  III
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Vine   Street                                                                                                                Vine   Street             ELEMENTARY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 West
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   P arkway




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      900
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Vine                                             Street                                                                                                  Vine                   Street                                       Vine      Street




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         East
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LIBERTY
                                                                            N OR T H J O R                     A NA L
                                                                                                        D AN   C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         THE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 700
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ELEMENTARY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SOUTHWOOD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Fashion
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VINE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               East
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VINEGATE                COTTONWOODS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PARK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          M urr ay
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    F                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           STREET                                                                                                                           CONDOS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1300
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              WILLOW                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EAST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               725
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I-2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ¦¨§           15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               POND                                                                                                                                                            GRANT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CONDOS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            C A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      AL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PARK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        JO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ELEMENTARY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GRANT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CARRIAGE




With the exception of the Community and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PARK                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PARK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  East
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Street
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            HERITAGE CENTER                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        MONTE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    §
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ¨
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ¦
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I-215                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LONGVIEW                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CRISTO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   F

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     F

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          §
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ¦
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ¨
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ELEMENTARY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  900
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 WHEELER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     State




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Fashion B oulevard
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I-15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   FARM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                §
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ¨
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ¦




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Av e.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                I-215                                                                                                                             FASHION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   6400                                                           South




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    6400           South                               6400    South




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 West




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MURRAY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PLACE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     East
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ay
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                               V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PARKWAY




                                                                                                                                                                                                            RI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  East
                                                                                                                                                                                                           N
                                                                                                                                                                                                       DA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MALL




                                                                                                                                                                                                      R
                                                                                                                                                                                                     J O




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         kw
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GOLF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 BROOKSTONE                                                                  COTTONWOOD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          P




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 700
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          COURSE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CONDOS                                                                      COVE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  725
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                y                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Winchester




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1300
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Winchester Street




Culture group, these focus groups existed in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         urra                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Street
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Winchester
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ANA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EAST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Street                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         STUDIO-6                                                                                                     JO RD AN A   ND S   LC CA   NAL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Street




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                East
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Winchester                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Winchester Street

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                §
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ¦
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ¨




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  East
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    JO RD AN A    ND SLC         CAN       AL


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  6600       South                                                                                                                               6600    South
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                I-215




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               STONEY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Street




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                900
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               §
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ¨
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ¦
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Winchester
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CRYSTAL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                BROOK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  725
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   IT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                I-215
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             T




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          INN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 O




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              WINCHESTER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      §
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 E EK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ¦
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ¨                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  §
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ¨
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ¦
                                                                                                                                     Street                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     F

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                §
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ¦
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ¨
                                                                                                                        Winchester




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  West




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Street
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ESTATES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I-215




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I-215




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              F




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 F

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                I-15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 700
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             RI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               State
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          R




some form prior to the start of the general plan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0                                                                                           0.25                                                                                  0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.5                                                                                                                       2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 N
                                                                                                                                        N
                                                                                                                                            O
                                                                                                                                                RT
                                                                                                                                                     H
                                                                                                                                                             J O
                                                                                                                                                                     RD
                                                                                                                                                                          A
                                                                                                                                                                              N
                                                                                                                                                                                       CA
                                                                                                                                                                                            NA
                                                                                                                                                                                                 L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Miles




update process. Each focus group met two
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Sources: Esri, DeLorme, NAVTEQ, USGS, Intermap, i PC, NRCAN, Esri Japan, METI, Esri China (Hong Kong), Esri (Thailand), TomTom, 2013




times. The first meeting consisted of visioning to
identify key assets and destinations and discuss
what’s working, not working, and missing in
Murray City from their perspective. The second
meeting was structured around a dialogue of
ideas for creating specific goals within each
focus area.

Community Survey

In November 2015, the Administrative
and Development Services Department
administered a scientific community survey in
conjunction with the preparation of the general
plan. The purpose of the survey was two-fold.
It allowed city residents to provide feedback on
perceptions and attitudes in their community.
It also provided a means for gaining input and valuable data to analyze issues related to the general
plan. The survey was distributed by mail to a randomly selected sample of 1,500 residents, obtained
through utility billing records. The city received a total of 342 responses, for a response rate of 23%
city-wide. The respondents were primarily homeowners (91%), female (56%), and over the age of
45 (76%). Nearly half of the respondents were long-term residents of Murray City (49% had lived in
Murray for more than twenty one years). Almost all respondents (97%) utilized a motor vehicle as their
primary means of transportation. The reported household income for 54% of the respondents was
above $65,000.

In considering the demographics of Murray City as a whole, compared to survey respondents, two
statistics are of note. The median income for Murray is reported at $54,405 and home ownership is
reported at 66% according to the 2009-2013 American Community Survey. Thus, the representation of
survey respondents is by a higher earning, home owning population than the city as a whole.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     13
The survey revealed that Murray’s convenient, central location was a main reason for living in the
city. In general, citizens feel positive about their community and the way it is being run. Important
considerations as Murray City plans for its future include:
   •   Quality of life
   •   Maintaining neighborhoods
   •   Safety
   •   Parks, open space, and recreation
   •   Revitalizing Downtown
   •   Sustainability, recycling, and green initiatives
   •   Mix of housing types
   •   Attracting young families
   •   Streetscape enhancements

The concepts contained in the general plan received broad support by survey respondents, confirming
the plan outreach and development process worked well to capture key community issues and
initiatives. Survey respondents expressed support for each of the General Plan’s five Key Initiatives,
which are presented in Chapter 3 - Framework for the Future.

Plan Documentation + Adoption

Following the completion of the focus groups and first two open houses, preparation of the document
began. A draft document was prepared during the summer of 2015. City staff undertook an extensive
review of the draft in August and September 2015. A draft of all the plan’s goals and objectives was
distributed to the Steering Committee for review in September 2015, prior to presentation to the
public at the third open house in October 2015. Detailed comments from City Staff, the Steering
Committee, and the public were assessed and incorporated into an updated draft presented to City
Staff in November 2015. A community survey conducted in November 2015 confirmed the direction of
the plan. An updated draft was provided to the Steering Committee for review in February 2016. Over
the spring and summer of 2016, the plan was refined. A final draft was presented to the public at the
fourth and final open house in August 2016.

Following the final open house the plan moved towards adoption. At a joint work session with the City
Council and Planning Commission in September 2016, members of both groups provided feedback on
the final draft plan. After updates, the final general plan was presented to the Murray City Planning
Commission during public hearings in November and December 2016. Final plan edits followed and
a public hearing was held by the City Council in March 2017. This general plan update was formally
adopted by the Murray City Council on March 7, 2017.
                                                                                    2 - COMMUNITY CONTEXT


CHAPTER TWO: COMMUNITY CONTEXT




2.1 COMMUNITY HISTORY

Prior to the mid-19th century, Paiute, Shoshone, and Bannock Native American tribes seasonally
inhabited the area now known as Murray City. In 1848, the first Mormon pioneers began permanent
settlement and by 1860 at least 20 families lived in the area, which was primarily agricultural in nature
and known as South Cottonwood. In 1869, ore was discovered across the mountains in Park City and
in Little Cottonwood Canyon. Because of its central location, railroad access, and abundance of water,
the first smelter was built in Murray in 1870. Over the next 30 years, Murray became home to some
of the largest smelters in the region. The smelters brought significant population growth and ethnic
diversity to the area. According to the Murray City website, the ethnic diversity of smelter workers,
who came from Greece, Armenia, Yugoslavia, Italy, and Japan, is evident in the Murray City Cemetery.
Along with agriculture, smelters dominated Murray’s economy for the following six decades.

Along with its central location, transportation played a significant role in Murray’s history. The
establishment of a road network to connect dispersed settlements across the territory was an early
priority for the pioneers. One of these designated ‘territorial roads’ brought traffic into and through
the Murray community. Known as State Street (Highway 89) the road was a primary route for long-
distance travel, as well as travel within the Wasatch Front region. As such, nodes of retail and service
businesses were located along its length, including within Murray. A business district took root along
this key transportation corridor, providing the basis of Murray’s downtown. In 1893, the Salt Lake
Rapid Transit Company began electric streetcar service on State Street, linking downtown Salt Lake
City to Murray. This facilitated the growth of Murray as a suburban community.

During the Great Depression many smelters and other heavy industries closed or moved. After World
War II, housing and shopping centers began to replace agriculture, and more changes that define
Murray today followed. The last smelter closed by 1950; Murray Auto Row took root; and Interstate 15
and 215, Fashion Place Mall, TRAX and Commuter Rail, and Intermountain Medical Center were built.


                                                                                                            15
2 - COMMUNITY CONTEXT

       2.2 PLANNING HISTORY

       The timeline graphic highlights key events in City history, with a focus on those related to planning,
       growth, and change.

       Residents vote to incorporate in November         1902
       1902 and Murray City is officially recognized
       on January 3, 1903 as a third class city
       Murray City annexes land and reaches a            1905
       population of at least 5,000 allowing it to
       qualify as a second class city                                                                      Murray Railroad Depot
                                                                                                           ca. 1910

      Murray City School District created                1906


      First City Hall, jail, and firehouse built         1908


                                                                                                           Murray Power Plant



                                                         1912         Murray Public Services created for power,
                                                                      water, sewer, garbage, and, later, recycling
                                                         1913          Municipal Power Plant established
     City Hall, ca. 1908



      Murray City Park established                       1924




                                                                                                           Murray City Park

                                                         1930s         Murray petitions for federal money to
Murray High Marching
       Band, ca. 1938
                                                                       refurbish 22 acre Murray City Park and add
                                                         1946          12 acres to the park
      First zoning ordinances and building codes
      adopted


                                                         1957         New City Hall purchased at 5461 South State
                                                                      Street




       Downtown State
       Street, ca. 1960

      Plans for a new library and fire station           1964
      developed
      Interstate 15 began operations between 3300        1966                                              Fashion Place Mall,
                                                                                                           ca. 1982
      South and 5300 south
                                                         1972
16                                                                     Fashion Place Mall built
                                                                             2 - COMMUNITY CONTEXT




  City Hall moves to old Arlington Elementary    1982
  School building at 5025 S. State Street
  City Master Plan Adopted                       1985


                                                                                          Jordan River
                                                                                          Parkway
                                                 1990   Master Plan for Jordan River Parkway
                                                        adopted
                                                 1993   1993 General Plan Adopted
         UTA TRAX
                                                 1994   Murray City Parks and Recreation
                                                        Comprehensive Master Plan Adopted
                                                 1999   TRAX opens first North-South Line
                                                        (Red Line)
                                                 1999   Amendment to 1993 General Plan Adopted


       Demolition of
Smelter Smokestacks

  Smelter smokestacks imploded. IHC              2000
  purchases smelter site
  Salt Lake County Council agrees to Murray      2001
                                                                                          Historic Murray
  annexations of unincorporated eastern areas.                                            Theater
  Three Fountains and Chevy Chase areas are
  annexed.

  Wheeler, Cottonwood, and South                 2002
  Cottonwood areas annexed
  2003 General Plan Adopted                      2003
  Murray Downtown Residential Historic           2005
  District listed on the National Register of                                             Intermountain
  Historic Places                                                                         Medical Center

  Murray Downtown Historic District listed on    2006
  the National Register of Historic Places

  Intermountain Medical Center opens for         2007
  operation
  Jordan River Trail Master Plan update          2008

  The Murray City Center District is             2011                                     Murray Frontrunner
                                                                                          Station
  established
                                                 2012   Frontrunner South Commuter Rail Opens
                                                 2014   2017 General Plan Update begins
                                                                                                            17
2 - COMMUNITY CONTEXT

     2.3 REGIONAL CONTEXT

     Murray’s central location in the larger metropolitan area makes it important for the City to be aware of
     its regional context. Regional issues such as growth, transportation, the economy, natural resources,
     air quality, and open space all impact the quality of life of residents of Murray and provide the city
     with opportunities. The ideas and initiatives captured in this General Plan are grounded in the regional
     vision reflected by the Wasatch Choice for 2040 (WC2040), and the refined Wasatch Choice for 2050.

     Wasatch Choice for 2040

     A collection of principles for guiding regional growth were adopted for the WC2040 following input
     from community workshops, open houses, committee deliberations, surveys and polling. The overall
     objective of WC2040 is to promote quality growth throughout the region, as rapid population growth
     continues in the Greater Wasatch Region. The principles are designed to help individual communities,
     like Murray City, play a role in helping this regional growth be well-planned and accommodated in
     an efficient and cost-effective manner. The vision map can be found on the WC2040 website: http://
     wasatchchoice2040.com/about-wc2040.

     The key Guiding Principles of the WC2040 are:

        •   Provide Public Infrastructure that is Efficient and Adequately Maintained
        •   Provide Regional Mobility through a Variety of Interconnected Transportation Choices
        •   Integrate Local Land-Use with Regional Transportation Systems
        •   Provide Housing for People in all Life Stages and Incomes
        •   Ensure Public Health and Safety
        •   Enhance the Regional Economy
        •   Promote Regional Collaboration
        •   Strengthen Sense of Community
        •   Protect and Enhance the Environment

     Wasatch Choice 2050

     Wasatch Choice 2050 (WC2050) is the most significant update to the WC2040 Vision since Wasatch
     Front communities first established it over a decade ago. WC2050 updates the regional vision
     looking out to 2050. It better articulates how to make the vision a reality through recommended
     implementation strategies. The WC2050 builds on the dynamic changes happening in communities
     throughout the region, local efforts like Salt Lake County’s The Future We Choose, and the Your Utah,
     Your Future statewide vision in which nearly 53,000 Utahns participated.

     “Centered growth” is one of the key strategies of the Wasatch Choice 2050 Vision. Strategic planning
     in a small portion of the metropolitan area -- places like downtowns, main streets and station area
     communities -- can yield huge benefits. Targeting growth in these areas takes the strong market for
     accessible jobs and moderately priced/ downsized living and enables them to grow where they do the
     most good for everyone – in centrally located areas and places with great transportation access, like
     Murray City. Portions of Murray City are identified as an Urban Center and Boulevard Communities.


18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2 - COMMUNITY CONTEXT

 Some of the key benefits of Centers include:
                        •            Helps ensure people have a selection of homes to meet their needs.
                        •            Reduces the time, distance and money it takes for people to reach many of their destinations.
                        •            Enables people to reach more destinations by foot, bike and transit in addition to car.
                        •            Helps businesses reach more consumers and employees to have a selection of more jobs.
                        •            Helps improve the quality of the air we breathe.
                        •            Creates walkable communities.
                        •            Reduces growth pressure on the Wasatch Back.
                        •            Reduces demand for scarce water.

 Salt Lake County Regional Development and Planning

 Salt Lake County has a Regional Development department that helps to coordinate and implement
 county-wide planning and transportation issues. Many of these projects have an impact on the
 way Murray considers planning and implementation within city boundaries. The most up-to-date
 information can be found on the county’s webpage: http://slco.org/planning-transportation/

 Two key projects with direct relevance to Murray City are the Active Transportation Implementation
 Plan, currently in its draft development, and the East West Recreational Trails Master Plan, completed
 in 2015. The map from the East West Trails Plan indicates preferred alignments through Murray for
 recreation trails (shown below in the segment map from that plan document).




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Dr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Map 5: Corridor C Preferred AlignmentsI-80
                                                                                                                                                                       SOUTH FRONTAGE RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2100 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           FO
                                                                            H                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PA
                                                                       NORT RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               RL
                                                                         TAGE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     E
                                                                     FRON




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               HIL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      YS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Salt Lake County East West




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          §
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ¦
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ¨                                                                                                                                                                §
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ¦
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ¨

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1300 NB E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           215                                                                                                                                                             80
    9180 W




                                                                                                                                                         LAKE PAR
                                                                                                                                                                 K BLVD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Recreational Trails Master Plan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PARKWAY BLVD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   900 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2700 S
                                                                                                                                                   COR K DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         WEST TEMPLE ST
                                                                                                                                                     PAR
                                                                                                                                                       POR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      RICHMOND ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MAIN ST
   9200 W




                                      8000 W




                                                                                                                                                          ATE
                                                            7200 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                    3100 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           700 E




              C
            BE OP
                            8400 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CONSTITUTION BLVD




              ND PE
                    R                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3300 S
                 RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       W




                                                                                                            3500 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              300 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                120
                                                                                                                               5200 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CYN
                                                                                                                                                                                                            3600 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3800               MILLCREEK

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2300 E
                                               Utah                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DOW                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S
                                                      Salt La                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MEA OK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    BRO                                                                                                                                                                          3900 S
                                                                                                                                                                                         4000 W




                                                             ke C
                                                                     anal                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EXPY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I-215
                                                                          Trail
                                                                                         4100 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1300 W
                                                                                                  6000 W




                                                                                                             5600 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            §
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ¨
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ¦ 15
                                                                                                                      5400 W




                                                                                                                                                                   Prefe                                                                                                                                                         PY
                                                                                                                                                                         rred                                                                                                                                      LE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EX                                                                                                                                                                          4500 S

                                                                                                                                                                                                     North                                                                                             SVIL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    HIGHLA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                          er n A                                                                                TAY
                                                                                                                                                                4715 S                           4700 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                lignm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 MURRAY RD
                                                                                      6400 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ND DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4800 S                                                          DAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ent                                  MUR RAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TAYLORSVI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LLE RD                                                                                                                                     HOLLA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                HO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3200 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LLA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1300 E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        YB
                                                                                                                                                                                        4015 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               5300 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LVD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 REDWOOD RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       INK




                                                                                                                                                                  5415 S                                                                                       5400 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               STATE ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CANAL ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       WA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    XP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              5600 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Y




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ATC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    §
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ¨
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ¦   215
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Alt 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           HB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  N BLVD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LVD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      5900 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Alt 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   900 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2700 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            FASHIO




                                                                                                                                                                                                   6200 S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BIG COTTONWOOD RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Alt 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           700 W
                                                                          U-1




                                                                                                                                                    COUGAR LN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    6400 S
                                                                             11




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   WINCHESTER ST
                                                                                HW
                                                                                  Y




                                                                                                                                                                AIRPORT RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        7000 S                                                                                                                                                                                                                             FORT UNIO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     N BLV     D

                                                                                                                                                                        e                    nt                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  D CY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            N

                                                                                                                                                                    gnm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 7200 S                                                                                                                                                                                                                       WOO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TTON
                                                                                                                                                                Ali
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    BIG CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       HILL
                                                                                                                                                       n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PARK AVE




                                                                                                                                                   h er
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SIXTH                                         GREENWOOD                         CR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       HIGH EST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         UNION




                                                                                                                                 out
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             AVE       7500 S                                AVE                             DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TEMPLE DR




                                                                                                                               dS
                                                                                                                      rre
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CENTER ST                                                                                                                           S                                                             BENG
                                                                                                               fe
                                                                                                                                                                                    7800 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        7755                                                                        AL BL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2200 W




                                                                                                           Pre
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        WASATCH ST                                            8000 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 JAGUAR DR
                                                                                                                                               4800 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3500 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Jordan




                                                                                                                                           Y
                                                                                                                                        HW
                                                                                                                           A     M
                                                                                                                         GH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Uta




                                                                                                                      BIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Riv




                                                                                                                 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 hS




                                                                                                               NE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          8600 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        er Trail




                                                                                                                                                                                                     Y                                                                                                                                                                                                        8680 S                   E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                alt




                                                                                                                                                                                                  HW                                                                                                                                                                                                                            68
                                                                                                                                                                                             M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    L




                                                                                                                                                                                         A
                                                                                                                                                                                       GH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ake




                                                                                                                                                                                D   BIN
                                                                                                                                                                             OL                                                                                         9000 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Ca




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PKW Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     na




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             COTT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SAN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              NOR NWOO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CO




                                                                                          DANNON WAY                       B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        l Tra




                                                                                                                         PA AG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              NN




                                                                                                                           R LE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TH LI D RD




                                                                                                                            K Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              il




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EC




                                                                                                                             R
                                                                                                                               D                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     9400 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1700 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    500 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LITTLE COT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       TTLE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TONWOOD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                °0                           0.5              1                                2
Corridor Alignments
  Corridor C Preferred
  Corridor C Alternative
                                             Open Space
                                             Light Rail Route
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Miles
  Primary North-South County Regional Trails Commuter Rail Route
     PageCounty
  Existing  8 Regional
                  Salt Lake
                         Trails County East West
                                             Light RailRecreaƟ
                                                        Stations onal Trails Master Plan
  Proposed County Regional Trails                           Commuter Rail Stations                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        March 2015
  Parks




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                19
2 - COMMUNITY CONTEXT


     2.4 HOW HAS MURRAY CHANGED?

     While Murray has not grown a great deal in population, it has undergone a lot of change since the
     2003 General Plan was adopted. On this page are some highlights of those changes and what we know
     about the demographics of Murray residents today.


                                            2003                        WHAT HAS CHANGED?


                                               THE LAST TIME WE WROTE OUR GENERAL PLAN, THINGS
                                                                        WERE A LITTLE DIFFERENT




               31                                    45,405
        MEDIAN AGE                                                 POPULATION




      25.5% POPULATION
                                                       $45,569
                                                   MEDIAN HOUSEHOLD INCOME
        WITH BACHELORS
                DEGREE


        2003
                                                  20.8 minutes
                                                  MEAN DRIVE TIME TO WORK
      % of Total Land Use


     Single-Family Multi-Family       Public       Parks and      Industrial Commercial       Office
      Residential   Residential                   Open Space
        46%              8%           6%             11%            8%          10%            4%

20
                                                                        2 - COMMUNITY CONTEXT




                WHAT IS NEW?
                                             2017
   TODAY THERE ARE NEW CHALLENGES, OPPORTUNITIES, AND
   VISIONS FOR THE FUTURE




                     49,250                                            35.7
                     POPULATION                                        MEDIAN AGE




               $54,685                                               29.7%
                                                                     POPULATION
               MEDIAN HOUSEHOLD INCOME
                                                                     WITH BACHELORS
                                                                     DEGREE


                                                                         2017
                   21.2 minutes
                   MEAN DRIVE TIME TO WORK
                                                         % of Total Land Use


Single-Family Multi-Family     Public    Parks and   Industrial   Commercial   Office
 Residential   Residential              Open Space
  46%            9%            8%         12%          9%          10%          4%

                                                                                           21
2 - COMMUNITY CONTEXT

     2.5 DEMOGRAPHICS

     Population + Population Growth

     Murray City has a midsize population compared
     to other incorporated cities within Salt Lake
     County, but has experienced fairly slow growth
     since 2000. The City has grown six percent
     from a population of 45,891 residents in 2000
     to approximately 48,612 residents in 2013. The
     average annual growth rate (AAGR) in Murray
     was 0.4 percent between 2000 and 2013. This
     growth rate is on par with Salt Lake City. It
     is higher compared to Cottonwood Heights,
     Sandy, and Taylorsville – but lower compared to
     the remaining municipalities of the county.




     Historic Population Growth in Murray and Surrounding Cities
           Description                    2000         2013     Absolute   % Change   AAGR
                                                                Growth
        Salt Lake County		               898,383    1,079,721   181,338     20%		     1.40%
        West Jordan			                   78,365		   110,077     31,712		    40%		     2.60%
        South Jordan			                  29,290		   59,366		    30,076		    103%		    5.60%
        Herriman			                      2,743		    26,362		    23,619		    861%		    19.00%
        West Valley City		               110,580    133,579     22,999		    21%		     1.50%
        Draper 			                       25,297		   45,285		    19,988		    79%		     4.60%
        Riverton         		              24,986		   40,921		    15,935		    64%		     3.90%
        Holladay			                      14,561		   27,137		    12,576		    86%		     4.90%
        Salt Lake City 		                182,256    191,180     8,924		     5%		      0.40%
        Midvale			                       26,322		   30,764		    4,442		     17%		     1.20%
        Bluffdale			                     4,698		    8,387		     3,689		     79%		     4.60%
        South Salt Lake		                21,795		   24,702		    2,907		     13%		     1.00%
        Murray			45,891		48,612		2,721		6%		0.40%
        Taylorsville			                  58,987		   60,519		    1,532		     3%		      0.20%
        Sandy				                        89,683		   90,231		    548		       1%		      < 0.1%
        Cottonwood Heights               34,572		   34,238		    -334		      -1%		     -0.10%

     Source: 2000 US Census, 2013 5-Year ACS




22
                                                                                     2 - COMMUNITY CONTEXT

As Murray City is primarily built out, the projected AAGR through 2030 is relatively low. Future
increases in population will primarily result from infill and re-development of existing properties.
The projected AAGR between 2010 and 2030 is below two percent for Murray and the majority of
municipalities in Salt Lake County. The exceptions are Bluffdale and Herriman. Bluffdale is projected
to have the highest AAGR at 4.0 percent, while Herriman is projected to have the largest increase in
percent of total population between 2010 and 2030 of 1.2 percent.




Projected Population Growth in Murray and Surrounding Areas
      Geography                       2010           2030           AAGR      2010 Percent   2030 Percent
                                                                  2010-2030     of Total       of Total
   Bluffdale 			                     7,598		        16,777		       4.00%		      1.10%		         1.90%
   Herriman 			                      21,785		       38,458		       2.90%		      3.10%		         4.30%
   Midvale 			27,964		41,207		2.00%		4.00%		4.60%
   South Jordan 			                  50,418		       74,258		       2.00%		      7.20%		         8.30%
   Murray 			46,746		61,798		1.40%		6.70%		6.90%
   Draper 			                        40,532		       52,680		       1.30%		      5.80%		         5.90%
   Riverton 			                      38,753		       50,150		       1.30%		      5.50%		         5.60%
   West Jordan 			                   103,712        135,254        1.30%		      14.80%          15.20%
   South Salt Lake 		23,617		29,693		1.20%		3.40%		3.30%
   Holladay 			                      26,472		       34,960		       0.80%		      3.80%		         3.50%
   Sandy 			                         87,461		       102,107        0.80%		      12.50%          11.50%
   West Valley City 		               129,480        150,641        0.80%		      18.50%          16.90%
   Cottonwood Heights                33,433		38,738		0.70%		4.80%		4.30%
   Taylorsville 			                  58,652		       66,282		       60%		        8.40%		         7.40%

Source: Governor’s Office of Management and Budget (GOMB); ZPFI


The Wasatch Front Regional Council (WFRC) also projects population change, according to Traffic
Analysis Zones (TAZ). The WFRC projects a total population of 62,103 by 2030 for Murray, which is
comparable to the GOMB projection.

Projected Population Growth in Murray and Surrounding Areas
                                      2015           2015          2020          2030           2040

   Murray 			                        56,124		      56,124		       57,173		      62,103		       66,330


Source: Wasatch Front Regional Council; ZPFI




                                                                                                            23
2 - COMMUNITY CONTEXT

     Population + Age

     Murray City has a significantly higher
     median age of 35.7 compared to the
     County (31.2) and the State of Utah (30.2).
     The City’s median age is the second
     highest compared to surrounding areas
     in the County. This could be due to its
     location as an established area in the Salt
     Lake Valley.

     Murray City has a lower percent of
     population of children under the age of 19
     compared to Salt Lake County. Both the
     City (57%) and the County (55%) have a
     similar percent of population between the
     ages of 24 through 59. Murray City has a
     higher percent of population ages 60 and
     older compared to the County.


     Median Age
                                             Description              Median Age

        					Utah 							30.2
        				                                 Salt Lake County					31.2
        					Holladay						38.3
        				                                 Murray						                35.7
        					Cottonwood Heights				                                      35.2
        					Sandy 						34.0
        					Taylorsville						31.9
        					Midvale                                       					30.7
        					Draper 						30.6
        					South Salt Lake					29.9
        					South Jordan 					29.8
        				                                 West Valley City   				29.7
        					West Jordan						28.7
        				                                 Riverton      					28.3
        				                                 Bluffdale     					26.7
        				                                 Herriman      					         20.5

     Source: 5-Year ACS 2009-2013


24
                                      2 - COMMUNITY CONTEXT

           Murray City
Female         Age             Male
           85 years and over
              80 to 84
              75 to 79
              70 to 74

             65 to 69
             60 to 64
             55 to 59
             50 to 54
             45 to 49

             40 to 44
             35 to 39
             30 to 34
             25 to 29
             20 to 24


             15 to 19
             10 to 14



              5 to 9
             Under 5



         Salt Lake County
Female         Age             Male
           85 years and over
              80 to 84
              75 to 79
              70 to 74

             65 to 69
             60 to 64
             55 to 59
             50 to 54
             45 to 49

             40 to 44
             35 to 39
             30 to 34
             25 to 29
             20 to 24


             15 to 19
             10 to 14



              5 to 9
             Under 5



                                                         25
2 - COMMUNITY CONTEXT

     Household Size

     The average household size in Murray of 2.54 is the second smallest compared to the majority of the
     surrounding areas and Salt Lake County’s median household age of 3.01. This is consistent with the
     high median age in Murray, which would generally indicate that a larger portion of households are
     two person households where the children are grown and have moved out of the house. The map on
     the adjacent page shows household sizes throughout the County at a detailed Census Tract Level. The
     largest household sizes in Murray are in the southwestern portion of the City.
     		                                                    Description                                              Household Size

         					Salt Lake County                                                          				3.01
         					Herriman						4.01
         			                                              Bluffdale           					3.79
         				                                             Riverton						3.71
         					South Jordan 					                                                                                               3.65
         					West Valley City					3.49
         				                                             West Jordan						3.43
         					Draper 						3.41
         					Sandy 						3.09
         					Taylorsville                                                    					3.06
         					Cottonwood Heights                                                                  			2.80
         					Holladay						2.62
         					South Salt Lake					2.61
         					Midvale						                                                                                                    2.56
         					Murray						                                                                                                     2.54
         					Salt Lake City 					2.49

     Source: 5-Year ACS 2009-2013




     Businesses along State Street in Murray, Utah including the Iris Theatre, Winger Electric, Murray Auto Supply, Franz Stores, and a shoe
     store. July 1940

26
                                                                                                  2 - COMMUNITY CONTEXT

Salt Lake County Persons per Household




                                         Salt Lake City

                                                                                                         Emigration Canyon




                                                                South Salt Lake
    Magna
                                                                                                  Millcreek

                         West Valley City




                                            Taylorsville                                     Holladay
                         Kearns
                                                                       Murray




                                                                  Midvale                    Cottonwood Heights

                          West Jordan




Copperton
                                                                                White City
                               South Jordan
                                                                                        Sandy




                                        Riverton


                                                                             0.0-2.4
                                                                            Draper              2.9-3.2    3.6-4.4
                                                                              2.5-2.8               Legend
                                                                                                3.3-3.5
                                                                                                    Household Size
                    Herriman                        Bluffdale                                                 0.0 - 2.4
                                                                                                              2.5 - 2.8      27
                                                                                                              2.9 - 3.2
2 - COMMUNITY CONTEXT

     		                                     Description                    Median Household Income

        					Utah						                                                                 $58,821
        					Salt Lake County				                                                       $60,555
        					Draper 					$89,922
        					South Jordan 				$89,709
        					Bluffdale					                                                             $88,657
        					Riverton					$82,336
        					Sandy 					$76,904
        					Cottonwood Heights			                                                      $74,825
        					Herriman					                                                              $72,215
        					West Jordan					$67,308
        					Holladay					$66,368
        					Taylorsville					                                                          $57,553
        					Murray                                        				                         $54,405
        					West Valley City				                                                       $52,389
        					Midvale					$48,008
        					Salt Lake City 				                                                        $45,862
        					South Salt Lake				                                                        $35,514

     Source: 5-Year ACS 2009-2013




     Median Household Income

     Murray City’s median household income of $54,405 is 11 percent lower compared to Salt Lake County’s
     median household income of $60,555 and eight percent lower compared to the State’s median
     income of $58,821. In general, cities located in the southern portions of Salt Lake County have higher
     median household incomes compared to the northern portions of the County. Murray has a higher
     median income compared to West Valley City, Midvale, Salt Lake City and South Salt Lake, but lower
     compared to cities in the southern portion of the County such as West Jordan, Draper, South Jordan,
     Bluffdale, Sandy, Cottonwood Heights and Herriman. Murray’s median household income is also
     approximately 22 percent lower than Holladay, the City’s neighbor to the east.

     While Murray City’s median income per household is in the lower range compared to other cities
     in the County, the City’s per capita income is ten percent higher compared to the County and is
     higher compared to the majority of surrounding areas. This is related to the lower household size in
     Murray and an indication of the stronger buying power of Murray residents compared to many of the
     surrounding areas.




28
                                                                                                    2 - COMMUNITY CONTEXT

Salt Lake County Median Household Income




                                        Salt Lake City

                                                                                                           Emigration Canyon




                                                                South Salt Lake
    Magna
                                                                                                    Millcreek

                        West Valley City




                                           Taylorsville                                      Holladay
                        Kearns
                                                                       Murray




                                                                  Midvale                    Cottonwood Heights

                         West Jordan




Copperton
                                                                                White City
                              South Jordan
                                                                                        Sandy




                                       Riverton

                                                          $0-41,845             $56,221-$65,694
                                                                            Draper                         $82,500-$187,538
                                                          $41,845-$56,221         $65,694-$82,500
                                                                                             Legend
                                                                                             Household Income
                   Herriman                        Bluffdale                                          $0 - $41,845             29
                                                                                                      $41,845 - $56,221
2 - COMMUNITY CONTEXT

     		                             Description          Per Capita Income

         					Salt Lake County				$26,103
         					Holladay                            				$38,097
         					Cottonwood Heights			$36,668
         					Draper 					$32,618
         					Sandy 					                                   $30,952
         					South Jordan 				$29,271
         					Murray                              				$28,811
         					Salt Lake City 				$28,137
         					Bluffdale					$27,934
         					Riverton					                                 $25,629
         					Midvale					$22,904
         					Taylorsville                        				      $22,523
         					West Jordan		                         			$22,303
         					Herriman					$22,114
         					West Valley City				$17,934
         					South Salt Lake				$16,448

     Source: 5-Year ACS 2009-2013




     Murray Streetcar


30
                                                                             2 - COMMUNITY CONTEXT

Educational Attainment

Murray is in the mid-range for educational
attainment for residents over 25 years
of age compared to surrounding areas.
Murray residents are well-educated, having
a higher percent of high school graduates
or higher compared to the County and the
State. Furthermore, Murray’s work force is
comparable to the State with 30.3 percent
of residents 25 years of age and older having
obtained a bachelor’s degree or higher and
slightly lower compared to the County’s 31
percent.
                                                        Japanese School at Tadeharas Farm on 7th West




		                               Description             High School          Bachelor’s Degree
                                                   Graduate or Higher                 or Higher
   				Holladay				                                            96.3%			                 51.7%
   				Cottonwood Heights                                      95.6%			                 46.1%
   				Salt Lake City 			86.3%			41.2%
   				Draper 				96.0%			39.0%
   				Sandy 				                                              95.7%			                 38.6%
   				South Jordan 			96.4%			38.4%
   				Riverton				                                            95.9%			                 31.3%
   				Salt Lake County			89.0%			31.0%
   				Murray                                   			92.2%			30.3%
   				Utah State				90.9%			30.3%
   				Herriman                                 			            95.5%			                 30.0%
   				Bluffdale				97.2%			26.6%
   				West Jordan 			90.4%			23.4%
   				Midvale				84.0%			22.1%
   				South Salt Lake			                                      75.3%			                 21.5%
   				Taylorsville				88.8%			20.1%
   				West Valley City			78.1%			13.1%

Source: 5-Year ACS 2009-2013



                                                                                                        31
  “Guide growth to
 promote prosperity
  and sustain a high
  quality of life for
   those who live,
   work, shop, and
recreate in Murray.”
 GOAL & MISSION of the MURRAY CITY GENERAL
                                      PLAN
                                                                           3 - FRAMEWORK FOR THE FUTURE


CHAPTER THREE: FRAMEWORK FOR THE FUTURE




3.1 MURRAY CITY’S VISION

Murray City citizens value their city as a great place to live, work, and recreate. Located at the center
of the Salt Lake Valley, Murray’s rich history, combined with continuing growth, creates a vibrant
community that supports a high quality of life, a broad range of community services, and an engaged
city government and citizens.

The primary goal and mission of the general plan is to:

    Guide growth to promote prosperity and sustain a high quality of life
          for those who live, work, shop, and recreate in Murray.
3.2 KEY INITIATIVES

Ideas, suggestions, discussions, and feedback received during the visioning process coalesced into
twelve “Big Ideas”. These twelve ideas were condensed into Five Key Initiatives, which provide a high-
level, cross-disciplinary perspective on the future direction for the city. Collectively, these initiatives
create a Planning, Design, & Policy Framework, which functions as an integrated foundation for
implementing the goals, objectives, and strategies of the General Plan elements. The Key Initiatives
capture the City’s primary planning, policy, and design intentions for the next 5 to 20 years and their
implementation will be guided by documented industry Best Practices (outlined in Chapter 4) and
more detailed Small Area Plans conducted by Murray City. Small Area Plans may be conducted for
areas identified as neighborhood nodes, target employment or retails areas, transit villages, and key
centers on the maps for the five Initiative Maps to better understand the context for new ideas.


                                                                                                              33
 3 - FRAMEWORK FOR THE FUTURE



                                5 KEY INITIATIVES

                         INITIATIVE #1: CITY CENTER DISTRICT
                            Building on Murray’s commercial district along State Street with
                            existing cultural assets, this initiative is geared toward creating a core
                            district at the city’s center. Throughout the public involvement process,
                            people expressed a desire for cultural and social events within their own
                            community. A City Center District can be the social and economic heart
                            of the city.

                          INITIATIVE #2: CREATE OFFICE/EMPLOYMENT CENTERS
                            Market and economic analysis shows that Murray’s retail market is
                            saturated, however there is room for economic growth through office
                            space. Building on Murray’s strong retail base, this initiative is geared
                            toward creating Class A office and employment centers that will help
                            make Murray’s economy even more resilient and diverse.


                          INITIATIVE #3: LIVABLE + VIBRANT NEIGHBORHOODS
                            Healthy cities with stable residential areas create places where people
                            want to live. Building on Murray’s established residential neighborhoods,
                            this initiative is geared toward keeping these areas livable and vibrant.
                            Strategies include creating neighborhood nodes designed for people
                            and scaled to complement the surrounding area, life-cycle housing to
                            allow residents to age in place, and access to parks and open space.

                          INITIATIVE #4: LINKING CENTERS/DISTRICTS TO SURROUNDING CONTEXT

                            Building on key activity centers such as Intermountain Medical Center
                            and Downtown Murray, this initiative is geared toward connecting
                            these areas to their surrounding context. A combination of physical
                            infrastructure connections and complementary land uses and urban
                            design will create a more cohesive core for the city.

                         INITIATIVE #5: A CITY GEARED TOWARD MULTI-MODALITY
                             The desire to safely and comfortably walk and bike to destinations
                            emerged as a common thread through the public involvement
                            process. Building on Murray’s central location and recent multi-modal
                            infrastructure improvements, this initiative is geared toward making
                            complete neighborhoods designed for people.

34
                                              3 - FRAMEWORK FOR THE FUTURE



                                       MURRAY CITY
                                     FRAMEWORK MAP




LEGEND
   Stable Neighborhoods             Transit Stations

   Parks: Neighborhood + Regional   Jordan River Parkway

   Historic District                Bike Lanes: Current Lanes

   Regional Center                  Bike Routes: Current Routes

   City/Retail Center               Bike Lanes/Path: Desired/Planned

   Neighborhood Node

                                                                         35
 3 - FRAMEWORK FOR THE FUTURE



                   INITIATIVE #1: CITY CENTER DISTRICT


                         WHY
                            A City Center District in the heart of the City will provide an opportunity to draw
                            residents together and create social and cultural ties to the City. These ties can enable
                            an increased sense of belonging and satisfaction for both long-term residents of
                            Murray and create a more distinct identity that will attract new residents and visitors to
                            the City.

                            The establishment of a City Center District provides a base for new economic growth
                            and diversity, increasing the resiliency of the city. With a strong retail base in other
                            areas of the City, investments additionally can be made in the city center from a
                            cultural perspective. These investments will help to stabilize the city’s historic core and
                            support existing and future landmarks.


                         WHAT
                            The City Center District will become a place for an evening out. Centered in and around
                            the previously established Murray City Center District and Downtown Historic District,
                            the expanded City Center District will draw residents and visitors to the area to attend
                            events and eat at local restaurants. Uses related to the cultural destinations will add
                            value to the community. The integration of youth-oriented activities will make the area
                            a family-friendly destination and appeal to a range of user groups.




36
                                     3 - FRAMEWORK FOR THE FUTURE


   INITIATIVE #1: CITY CENTER DISTRICT




Area enlarged above



                           LEGEND
                           Key Businesses + Landmarks
                           1. City Hall
                           2. Murray City Library
                           3. Murray Park Amphitheater
                           4. Desert Star Theater
                           5. Historic Murray Theater
                           6. Intermountain Medical Center
                           Transit Stations

                           Area Restaurants


                                                                37
 3 - FRAMEWORK FOR THE FUTURE


                          INITIATIVE #1: CITY CENTER DISTRICT


                         NEEDED FOR SUCCESS
                            Continuing to guide land uses and urban design in this area with pedestrian-oriented
                            urban form standards will be key to the success of making it a place for people to feel
                            comfortable spending time. Zoning and site design standards must be consistent with
                            making it a place for people, not for traffic passing through. This includes creating
                            the space and elements for a lively public gathering area, such as sidewalk dining,
                            landscaping, and seating areas.

                            An anchor node within the district consisting of a mix of venues, civic buildings, and
                            restaurants is needed to provide a critical mass of activity. A combination of public
                            and private investment will facilitate the establishment of this node, from which the
                            downtown core can expand and grow.

                            Investment in the infrastructure of the district is critical for providing the necessary
                            environment for cultural uses and events to succeed. This includes both hard
                            infrastructure investment in street and sidewalk upgrades as well soft infrastructure
                            investment in elements such as landscaping and the integration of public art.

                            Connections both within the district and to and from the surrounding context are
                            essential, especially when attracting visitors from outside of Murray. Facilitating the
                            physical connections from rail transit stations will depend on thinking more broadly
                            regarding the land uses and urban form environment between the stations and the
                            core node of the city center district.




                         BEST PRACTICES FOR IMPLEMENTATION
                            The following best practices are resources that can help guide the implementation of
                            what is needed for success in the City Center District. Details on these resources are
                            provided in Chapter 4.
                            •        Complete Streets
                            •        Sustainable Sites Initiative (SITES)
                            •        NACTO Urban Street Design Guidelines
                            •        Form-Based Code




38
                                                                                                         3 - FRAMEWORK FOR THE FUTURE



                                              GENERAL PLAN GOALS/OBJECTIVES TO SUPPORT THE INITIATIVE

                                                  An overview of the key related goals & objectives from the general plan elements
                                                  is provided to illustrate the integrated nature of the key initiative and link it to the
                                                  individual elements.




          LAND USE & URBAN DESIGN                                                                               NATURE/ENVIRONMENT
Provide and promote a mix of land uses and                                                          Ensure the stewardship of the natural environment
development patterns that support a healthy                                                         through sustainable growth and development patterns.
community comprised of livable neighborhoods,
vibrant economic districts, and appealing open spaces.                                               Promote low-impact development (LID) standards
 Encourage revitalization along transit corridors and city center                                    Ensure infrastructure needs are approached sustainably
 Support a range of commercial development scales                                                    Ensure development does not impact water quality
 Form-based and mixed use development pattern
 Support civic spaces through complementary land use
                                                                    INITIATIVE #1:
                                                                    CITY CENTER
                                                                      DISTRICT


                TRANSPORTATION                                                                       COMMUNITY/CULTURE/PRESERVATION
Provide an efficient and comprehensive multi-modal                                                  Sustain the culture and identity of Murray City.
transportation system that effectively serves residents
and integrates with the regional transportation plan for                                            Preserve key historic landmarks when feasible
the Wasatch Front.                                                                                  Provide a range of arts and cultural activities
                                                                                                    Support programs of cultural experiences
Promote the use of alternative transportation
                                                                                                    Increase the awareness of Murray City’s history and heritage
Utilize corridors to showcase the City
                                                                                                    Capitalize on historic resources for investing in the
Optimize existing transportation network
                                                                                                    character of the City
Support regional cooperation and coordination




         ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT                                                                                PARKS/OPEN SPACE/TRAILS
Ensure a resilient economy, prepared to handle future                                              Provide and promote a range of parks and open spaces
change through the support of a strong and diverse tax                                             for residents and visitors to serve a range of needs
base for the City.                                                                                 related to lifestyle and demographics, including age,
                                                                                                   ability, accessibility, and income
Revitalize Downtown east and west of State Street
Maintain supremacy as the regional retail hub of Salt Lake                                          Ensure new developments have parks and open
County                                                                                              space opportunities
                                                                                                    Green up the core of the City




                                                                                                                                                        39
 3 - FRAMEWORK FOR THE FUTURE



      INITIATIVE #2: CREATE OFFICE/EMPLOYMENT CENTERS


                         WHY
                            The economic development analysis indicates that retail in Murray City is saturated,
                            but there is room for economic growth in office space. Currently, Murray City does not
                            have any Class A Office space within its boundaries. Class A Office is usually defined by
                            the willingness to pay for rents above average for the area. Many factors contribute
                            to this level of desirability, including building finishes and systems, nearby amenities,
                            and location/accessibility. Murray’s central location and regional accessibility via transit
                            and automobile make it a desirable location for future office centers. Considering the
                            potential connections to nearby amenities will support the desirability.



                         WHAT
                            In order to create successful office and employment centers, Murray City must consider
                            establishing concentrated locations for drawing offices and businesses rather than
                            scattering them around the city. The objective for promoting mixed-use office centers
                            with nearby amenities will enhance their desirability and contribute to the positive
                            image of the city and its location.

                            Existing employment centers, such as Intermountain Medical Center (IMC), The
                            Orthopedic Specialty Hospital (TOSH), and the City Center can be anchors and be
                            supported with nearby related businesses.

                            Class A office buildings should be targeted for development clusters that contribute
                            positively to the urban form of the surrounding area (as opposed to only being an office
                            park). Buildings should also be resilient to economic change, with building and site
                            design that allows them to be adapted to other uses.




40
                                        3 - FRAMEWORK FOR THE FUTURE


INITIATIVE #2: CREATE OFFICE/EMPLOYMENT CENTERS




                              LEGEND

                              Future Target Areas

                              Key Landmarks

                              Transit Stations




                                                                   41
 3 - FRAMEWORK FOR THE FUTURE


               INITIATIVE #2: CREATE OFFICE/EMPLOYMENT CENTERS


                         NEEDED FOR SUCCESS
                            The zoning designations within the city need to be updated to provide a framework for
                            Class A office that is more urban and is designed to allow a mix of uses. The urban form
                            of the area must be allowed to evolve to create a district and/or neighborhood feel
                            rather than an isolated office building or office park.

                            Zoning that allows for market-driven building height and forms will support the
                            interests of developers who are willing to create high-quality places. The zoning
                            regulations should allow for a more flexible use of a site and not require large setbacks.
                            Parking should be directed behind buildings or located in structures that have an active
                            presence on the ground, street-facing level.

                            The hard infrastructure must be capable of handling the water, sewer, and
                            transportation demands of employment centers. Funding for the improvements to
                            Cottonwood Street will help facilitate the establishment of an office center in the
                            surrounding area.

                            Small area plans that specify site requirements for targeted office and employment
                            centers will create a more detailed framework for what the city would like to see occur.




                         BEST PRACTICES FOR IMPLEMENTATION
                            The following best practices are resources that can help guide the implementation
                            of what is needed for success in the office and employment centers. Details on these
                            resources are provided in Chapter 4.

                            •        APA Model Smart Growth Codes
                            •        ASLA Sustainable Urban Development Toolkit
                            •        Walkable and Livable Communities Institute Townmaker’s Guide: Healthy
                                     Building Placement best practice




42
                                                                                                       3 - FRAMEWORK FOR THE FUTURE



                                            GENERAL PLAN GOALS/OBJECTIVES TO SUPPORT THE INITIATIVE
                                                An overview of the key related goals & objectives from the general plan elements
                                                is provided to illustrate the integrated nature of the key initiative and link it to the
                                                individual elements.



          LAND USE & URBAN DESIGN                                                                              NATURE/ENVIRONMENT
 Provide and promote a mix of land uses and                                                         Ensure the stewardship of the natural environment
 development patterns that support a healthy                                                        through sustainable growth and development patterns.
 community comprised of livable neighborhoods,
 vibrant economic districts, and appealing open spaces.                                             Promote low-impact development (LID) standards
 Transform aesthetics of existing industrial development                                            Ensure infrastructure needs are approached sustainably
 Support a range of commercial development scales                                                   Protect areas that are less suitable for development
 Form-based and mixed use development pattern                                                       Ensure development does not impact water quality
 New development cannot impact the natural systems
 Stimulate reinvestment in deteriorating areas                 INITIATIVE #2:
 Support Intermountain Medical Center (IMC) through           CREATE OFFICE/
 complementary land uses
                                                               EMPLOYMENT
                                                                 CENTERS

                TRANSPORTATION                                                                       COMMUNITY/CULTURE/PRESERVATION
Provide an efficient and comprehensive multi-modal                                                 Sustain the culture and identity of Murray City.
transportation system that effectively serves residents
and integrates with the regional transportation plan for                                           Increase the awareness of Murray City’s history and
the Wasatch Front.                                                                                 heritage
                                                                                                   Capitalize on historic resources for investing in the
Provide safe and efficient movement of traffic
                                                                                                   character of the City
Promote the use of alternative transportation
Utilize corridors to showcase the City
Optimize existing transportation network
Connect adjacent land uses with transportation/mobility
Support regional cooperation and coordination




         ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT                                                                               PARKS/OPEN SPACE/TRAILS
Ensure a resilient economy, prepared to handle future                                              Provide and promote a range of parks and open spaces
change through the support of a strong and diverse tax                                             for residents and visitors to serve a range of needs
base for the City.                                                                                 related to lifestyle and demographics, including age,
                                                                                                   ability, accessibility, and income
Maintain supremacy as the regional retail hub of Salt
Lake County                                                                                        Green up the core of the City
Increase office property values and by create additional                                           Ensure new developments have parks and open space
employment centers                                                                                 opportunities
Enhance existing medical industries (such as
Intermountain Medical Center (IMC)
Enhance existing key industry centers




                                                                                                                                                       43
 3 - FRAMEWORK FOR THE FUTURE



       INITIATIVE #3: LIVABLE + VIBRANT NEIGHBORHOODS


                         WHY
                            Murray has an excellent stock of stable residential neighborhoods. Working to ensure
                            their vitality and livability will keep them desirable and continue to attract people to
                            live in Murray. The historic neighborhoods of Murray help define the city’s identity
                            and provide a sense of community. People also are interested in staying in their same
                            neighborhoods over time, even as their housing needs change. One type of housing
                            isn’t always the best choice for all phases of life. Neighborhoods with only one type of
                            housing limit the ability for life-cycle housing to occur.




                         WHAT
                            Neighborhoods that are proactively maintained will help homes keep or increase their
                            market value. This can be achieved by buffering neighborhoods from incompatible
                            uses. Locating small commercial nodes within walking or biking proximity to all
                            neighborhoods allows for daily needs to be met without needing to drive to large
                            commercial areas. Easy access to parks and trails contributes to the desirability of
                            being in an area.




44
                                                                   3 - FRAMEWORK FOR THE FUTURE


           INITIATIVE #3: LIVABLE + VIBRANT NEIGHBORHOODS




LEGEND                                         Parks: Neighborhood + Regional

                                               1. Mick Riley Golf Course
    Jordan River Parkway/Future Canal Trails   2. Murray City Park
                                               3. Murray City Cemetery
                                               4. Hidden Village Park
    Neighborhoods                              5. Willow Pond Park
                                               6. Grant Park
    Elementary Schools                         7. Woodstock Meadows Park (SLCO)
                                               8. Southwood Park
    Junior High Schools                        9. Wheeler Farm (SLCO)
                                               10. Murray Parkway Golf Course
    High Schools                               11. Riverview Park
                                               12. Winchester Park
    Historic District                          13. Walden Park
                                               14. Germania Park
                                               15. Arrowhead Park



                                                                                              45
 3 - FRAMEWORK FOR THE FUTURE


                INITIATIVE #3: LIVABLE + VIBRANT NEIGHBORHOODS


                         NEEDED FOR SUCCESS
                            A clear identification of areas that need improved transitions and buffers must occur
                            for these neighborhoods to feel confident in their long-term livability. Buffers need not
                            be only related to uses. Visual and auditory buffers between residential neighborhoods
                            and adjacent uses can allow the convenience of proximity while minimizing the
                            negative impacts. Site plan requirements for adjacent uses should include height
                            transitions to provide a physical buffer.

                            The neighborhoods located on the east side of Murray should feel culturally connected
                            to the broader community. Working to enhance physical connections and consistency
                            in urban design standards for nodes can facilitate the identification of these
                            neighborhoods as part of Murray.

                            Land use and zoning regulations must be adapted to provide more opportunities for
                            life cycle housing within residential areas. This can include the continuation of allowing
                            accessory dwelling units (ADU) such as mother-in-law apartments. It also needs to
                            work for allowing a range of housing types that address the ‘missing middle’ between
                            detached single-family homes and large apartment complexes. This can happen by
                            integrating smaller multi-unit projects, including single-family attached units such as
                            duplexes and rowhomes into neighborhoods versus larger-scale apartment complexes.
                            Residential zoning should be updated to allow for a range of these smaller multi-unit
                            projects as permitted rather than conditional uses.

                            The historic neighborhoods need to understand what draws people to these areas and
                            what keeps them away. Work to address issues and also ensure that the desirability of
                            these areas is not inadvertently compromised by city policies.




                         BEST PRACTICES FOR IMPLEMENTATION
                            The following best practices are resources that can help guide the implementation
                            of what is needed for success in livable and vibrant neighborhoods. Details on these
                            resources are provided in Chapter 4.

                            •        ALSA Heathy and Livable Communities Toolkit
                            •        Complete Streets
                            •        NACTO Urban Bikeway Design Guide
                            •        LEED Neighborhood Development (LEED-ND)




46
                                                                                                                   3 - FRAMEWORK FOR THE FUTURE



                                              GENERAL PLAN GOALS/OBJECTIVES TO SUPPORT THE INITIATIVE
                                                  An overview of the key related goals & objectives from the general plan elements
                                                  is provided to illustrate the integrated nature of the key initiative and link it to the
                                                  individual elements.


         LAND USE & URBAN DESIGN                                                                                       NATURE/ENVIRONMENT
Provide and promote a mix of land uses and                                                                  Ensure the stewardship of the natural environment
development patterns that support a healthy                                                                 through sustainable growth and development patterns.
community comprised of livable neighborhoods,
vibrant economic districts, and appealing open spaces.                                                      Promote low-impact development (LID) standards
Preserve and protect viable residential neighborhoods                                                       Ensure infrastructure needs are approached sustainably
Encourage revitalization along transit corridors and city center                                            Protect areas that are less suitable for development
Encourage form-based development at commercial nodes                                                        Capitalize on unsuitable areas for open space
Support a range of commercial development scales                                                            Ensure development does not impact water quality
Form-based and mixed use development pattern                         INITIATIVE #3:
New development cannot impact the natural systems                       LIVABLE
Provide a mix and range of housing options
                                                                           +
Promote transitional development between commercial and
neighborhoods
                                                                       VIBRANT
Stimulate reinvestment in deteriorating areas                      NEIGHBORHOODS

               TRANSPORTATION                                                                                         PARKS/OPEN SPACE/TRAILS
Provide an efficient and comprehensive multi-modal                                                          Provide and promote a range of parks and open spaces
transportation system that effectively serves residents                                                     for residents and visitors to serve a range of needs
and integrates with the regional transportation plan for                                                    related to lifestyle and demographics, including age,
the Wasatch Front.                                                                                          ability, accessibility, and income

Provide safe and efficient movement of traffic                                                               Green up the core of the City
Promote the use of alternative transportation                                                                Maintain parks and open space service levels
Support residential traffic calming                                                                          Ensure new developments have parks and open space
Utilize corridors to showcase the City                                                                       opportunities
Optimize existing transportation network                                                                     Ensure Murray leads as a steward of the Jordan River Parkway
Enhance connectivity between key destinations                                                                Develop new and improve existing trailways
Connect adjacent land uses with transportation/mobility                                                      Coordinate to create regional network of trails
Support regional cooperation and coordination                                                                Green up the core of the City
                                                                                                             New developments have parks and open space opportunities




                     HOUSING
                                                                                                              COMMUNITY/CULTURE/PRESERVATION
Provide a diversity of housing through a range
of types and development patterns to expand                                                                 Sustain the culture and identity of Murray City.
the housing options (including moderate income)
                                                                                                             Preserve key historic landmarks when feasible
available to existing and future residents.
                                                                                                             Proactively identify historic neighborhoods and districts
Preserve and stabilize current neighborhoods                                                                 Provide a range of arts and cultural activities
Preserve aging housing stock through restoration                                                             Support programs of cultural experiences
Encourage a variety of housing options                                                                       Increase the awareness of Murray City’s history and heritage
Ensure housing affordability targets are achievable                                                          Balance new development and preservation of existing
Provide the opportunity for affordable home ownership                                                        development patterns


                                                             ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
                                                   Ensure a resilient economy, prepared to handle future
                                                   change through the support of a strong and diverse tax
                                                   base for the City.

                                                    Create unique local neighborhood retail nodes
                                                    Create pedestrian and bike friendly economic districts/nodes
                                                                                                                                                                47
 3 - FRAMEWORK FOR THE FUTURE



     INITIATIVE #4: LINKING CENTERS/DISTRICTS TO SURROUNDING CONTEXT


                         WHY
                            Murray currently has several major centers and/or districts that are somewhat isolated
                            in nature from their surrounding context. Facilitating physical connections can provide
                            economic, social, and livability benefits. Working to transition former industrial areas
                            to the downtown can help make these areas more attractive to people who live and/or
                            work there.




                         WHAT
                            Encouraging and supporting complementary land uses will help link major centers to
                            their surrounding context. The urban form of the surrounding context is critical to the
                            success of these connections. For example, the hotels that have been built near the
                            Intermountain Medical Center (IMC) are a good complementary use, but the urban
                            form between the two does not facilitate an easy physical connection. Other uses
                            to encourage near IMC include food, grocery, gyms/fitness centers, banks, medical
                            offices, and open space/nature access. The Fireclay District and downtown Murray
                            could be connected via an improved urban form and walkable destinations, ranging
                            from daily needs such as grocery stores to intermittent cultural and entertainment
                            destinations.




48
                                                     3 - FRAMEWORK FOR THE FUTURE


 INITIATIVE #4: LINKING CENTERS/DISTRICTS TO SURROUNDING CONTEXT




LEGEND
     Jordan River Parkway
                                        Key Center
     Bike Lanes: Current Lanes

     Bike Routes: Current Routes        Future BRT/State Street Transit Improvement*

     Bike Lanes/Path: Desired/Planned   Potential Mixed-Use Station Village*

     Current UTA Bus Routes                 *State Street Improvements and BRT Stations
                                            as proposed by the Life on State: Our Street
                                            Our Vision study

                                                                                   49
 3 - FRAMEWORK FOR THE FUTURE


     INITIATIVE #4: LINKING CENTERS/DISTRICTS TO SURROUNDING CONTEXT


                         NEEDED FOR SUCCESS
                            Safe and inviting pedestrian routes into and out of centers are essential for creating
                            connections to the surrounding context. Conduct a sidewalk inventory to map
                            pedestrian routes. Fill in any missing links in the routes. Transportation networks
                            should support and encourage multiple modes of transportation such as walking,
                            biking and bus use. Prioritize streets to retrofit as complete streets.

                            Update zoning designations to allow for flexible uses of sites in the surrounding
                            context. Avoid requirements that detract from an inviting urban form, such as large
                            setbacks and extensive parking requirement. Facilitate locating parking behind
                            building or within structures. Parking structures with street-facing locations should
                            have active uses on the ground floor facing the street. Small area plans that specify site
                            requirements for key centers will create a more detailed framework for what the city
                            would like to see occur.

                            A consistent urban design theme with street lights, signage, and street trees will help
                            create a visually coherent and cohesive area to link centers to the surrounding context.
                            This may vary by district/center, yet should have unifying themes that are seen city-
                            wide to establish Murray’s identity visually.

                            Basic services should be located within a half-mile walking distance of each center/
                            district. Identify what types of zoning and land use to keep in this area and what to
                            change. Identify which supporting land uses are missing.

                            The hard infrastructure must be capable of handling the water, sewer, and
                            transportation demands of uses that are working to support existing and future
                            centers/district. As with Initiative #2, funding for the improvements to Cottonwood
                            Street will help facilitate connections of centers/district to the surrounding area.
                            Mixed-use and higher density neighborhoods need to be well-supported by parks,
                            schools, and community services. Proactive attention to these prior to approving
                            developments is critical to avoid isolation and impacts on entities designed for lower
                            intensity neighborhoods.


                         BEST PRACTICES FOR IMPLEMENTATION
                            The following best practices are resources that can help guide the implementation of
                            what is needed for success in linking centers to their surrounding context. Details on
                            these resources are provided in Chapter 4.

                            •        APA Model Smart Growth Codes
                            •        New Jersey Manual of Best Practices for Transit Oriented Development
                            •        NACTO Urban Bikeway Design Guide and Street Design Guide




50
                                                                                                                  3 - FRAMEWORK FOR THE FUTURE



                                              GENERAL PLAN GOALS/OBJECTIVES TO SUPPORT THE INITIATIVE

                                                An overview of the key related goals & objectives from the general plan elements
                                                is provided to illustrate the integrated nature of the key initiative and link it to the
                                                individual elements.



         LAND USE & URBAN DESIGN                                                                                       NATURE/ENVIRONMENT
Provide and promote a mix of land uses and                                                                  Ensure the stewardship of the natural environment
development patterns that support a healthy                                                                 through sustainable growth and development patterns.
community comprised of livable neighborhoods,
vibrant economic districts, and appealing open spaces.                                                      Promote low-impact development (LID) standards
 Preserve and protect viable residential neighborhoods                                                      Ensure infrastructure needs are approached sustainably
 Encourage form-based development at commercial nodes                                                       Protect areas that are less suitable for development
 Support a range of commercial development scales                                                           Ensure development does not impact water quality
 Form-based and mixed use development pattern
                                                                      INITIATIVE
 Support civic spaces through complementary land use                 #4: LINKING
 Promote transitional development between commercial &                CENTERS/
 neighborhoods                                                       DISTRICTS TO
 Stimulate reinvestment in deteriorating areas                      SURROUNDING
 Support Intermountain Medical Center (IMC) through
 complementary land uses
                                                                       CONTEXT



          PARKS/OPEN SPACE/TRAILS                                                                                                HOUSING
                                                                                                            Provide a diversity of housing through a range
Provide and promote a range of parks and open spaces
                                                                                                            of types and development patterns to expand
for residents and visitors to serve a range of needs
                                                                                                            the housing options (including moderate income)
related to lifestyle and demographics, including age,
                                                                                                            available to existing and future residents.
ability, accessibility, and income
                                                                                                            Ensure housing affordability targets are achievable
 Ensure new developments have parks and open space
 opportunities
 Green up the core of the City
 New developments have parks and open space
 opportunities




                                                                                                                           TRANSPORTATION
         ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
                                                                                                            Provide an efficient and comprehensive multi-modal
Ensure a resilient economy, prepared to handle future                                                       transportation system that effectively serves residents
change through the support of a strong and diverse tax                                                      and integrates with the regional transportation plan for
base for the City.                                                                                          the Wasatch Front.

Revitalize downtown east and west of State Street                                                           Provide safe and efficient movement of traffic
Maintain supremacy as the regional retail hub of Salt Lake                                                  Promote the use of alternative transportation
County                                                                                                      Utilize corridors to showcase the City
Create pedestrian and bike friendly economic districts/nodes                                                Optimize existing transportation network
Enhance existing medical industries (such as Intermountain                                                  Enhance connectivity between key destinations
Medical Center (IMC)                                                                                        Promote transit oriented development
Enhance existing key industry centers                                                                       Connect adjacent land uses with transportation/mobility
                                                                                                            Support regional cooperation and coordination


                                                          COMMUNITY/CULTURE/PRESERVATION
                                                         Sustain the culture and identity of Murray City.



                                                                                                                                                                  51
 3 - FRAMEWORK FOR THE FUTURE



     INITIATIVE #5: A CITY GEARED TOWARD MULTI-MODALITY


                         WHY
                            The desire to safely and comfortably walk and bike to destinations emerged as a
                            common thread throughout the public involvement process. Walkable and bikeable
                            communities offer several benefits to their residents. The ability to walk and bike to
                            destination leads to a healthier, resilient community of residents and supports better
                            air quality. A city geared towards bikes and pedestrians also offers economic benefits.
                            One study found that walkability raises housing values. This, in turn, enhances the local
                            tax base. Working to make a more pedestrian and bike friendly community can help set
                            Murray apart and work toward regional smart growth initiatives.


                          WHAT
                            Multiple modes of transportation (i.e. walking, biking, transit and cars) are thoughtfully
                            considered for every street as it is established and/or upgraded. Not all modes will
                            make sense on all streets, but a network for each mode should be sized appropriately
                            to the mode (e.g. a pedestrian network is very fine-grained while an automobile
                            network can be larger-grained). Modes can share space if the street is designed
                            appropriately with compatibility in mind.

                            Site design standards for developments should prioritize pedestrian and bicycle
                            access, not just consider automobile access. Bicycle and trail networks should continue
                            to be coordinated with neighboring communities and the regional system.




52
                                                       3 - FRAMEWORK FOR THE FUTURE


         INITIATIVE #5: A CITY GEARED TOWARD MULTI-MODALITY




LEGEND
    Murray/Taylorsville Bus Rapid Transit   Future Community Node
    Jordan River Parkway
                                            Future Neighborhood Node
    Bike Lanes: Current Lanes
                                            Future BRT/State Street Transit Improvement*
    Bike Routes: Current Routes
                                            Potential Mixed-Use Station Village*
    Bike Lanes/Path: Desired/Planned
                                                      *State Street Improvements and BRT
    Future TOD Node                                   Stations as proposed by the Life on
                                                      State: Our Street Our Vision study
                                                                                      53
 3 - FRAMEWORK FOR THE FUTURE


              INITIATIVE #5: A CITY GEARED TOWARD MULTI-MODALITY


                         NEEDED FOR SUCCESS
                            Small area plans for nodes and centers will create a more detailed framework for what
                            the city would like to see occur.

                            Inventory and analyze existing nodes to determine which nodes need enhanced.
                            Develop a strategy for the enhanced design of neighborhood nodes. Support the
                            establishment of neighborhood nodes that are bike and pedestrian friendly in
                            design and orientation. This can include the enhancement of existing nodes and the
                            establishment of new, small neighborhood nodes.

                            Create walkable areas within key economic districts, such as 4800 S/State St.; 900
                            E/5600 S; and Fashion Place Mall. The site design and perimeter of Fashion Place Mall
                            can be more pedestrian friendly.

                            Integrate commercial, retail, employment, recreation uses geared toward different
                            demographics/user groups (e.g. active seniors, bikers/pedestrians, transit-oriented
                            development residents).

                            Prioritize streets for Complete Streets retrofits.



                         BEST PRACTICES FOR IMPLEMENTATION
                            The following best practices are resources that can help guide the implementation of
                            what is needed for success in a city geared toward multi-modality. Details on these
                            resources are provided in Chapter 4.

                            •        Complete Streets Local Policy Workbook
                            •        NACTO Urban Bikeway Design Guide and Street Design Guide
                            •        ASLA Sustainable Urban Development Toolkit




54
                                                                                                           3 - FRAMEWORK FOR THE FUTURE



                                                GENERAL PLAN GOALS/OBJECTIVES TO SUPPORT THE INITIATIVE

                                                    An overview of the key related goals & objectives from the general plan elements
                                                    is provided to illustrate the integrated nature of the key initiative and link it to the
                                                    individual elements.




          LAND USE & URBAN DESIGN                                                                               NATURE/ENVIRONMENT
Provide and promote a mix of land uses and                                                           Ensure the stewardship of the natural environment
development patterns that support a healthy                                                          through sustainable growth and development patterns.
community comprised of livable neighborhoods,
vibrant economic districts, and appealing open spaces.                                               Promote low-impact development (LID) standards
 Encourage revitalization along transit corridors and city center                                    Ensure infrastructure needs are approached sustainably
 Encourage form-based development at commercial nodes                                                Capitalize on unsuitable areas for open space
 Support a range of commercial development scales                                                    Ensure development does not impact water quality
 Form-based and mixed use development pattern                       INITIATIVE #5:
                                                                    A CITY GEARED
                                                                      TOWARDS
                                                                        MULTI-
                                                                      MODALITY
                TRANSPORTATION                                                                                             HOUSING
Provide an efficient and comprehensive multi-modal                                                   Provide a diversity of housing through a range
transportation system that effectively serves residents                                              of types and development patterns to expand
and integrates with the regional transportation plan for                                             the housing options (including moderate income)
the Wasatch Front.                                                                                   available to existing and future residents.

Provide safe and efficient movement of traffic                                                        Encourage a variety of housing options
Promote the use of alternative transportation
Utilize corridors to showcase the City
Optimize existing transportation network
Enhance connectivity between key destinations
Promote transit oriented development
Connect adjacent land uses with transportation/mobility
Support regional cooperation and coordination




         ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT                                                                                PARKS/OPEN SPACE/TRAILS
Ensure a resilient economy, prepared to handle future                                               Provide and promote a range of parks and open spaces
change through the support of a strong and diverse tax                                              for residents and visitors to serve a range of needs
base for the City.                                                                                  related to lifestyle and demographics, including age,
                                                                                                    ability, accessibility, and income
Revitalize downtown east and west of State Street
Create unique local neighborhood retail nodes                                                       Ensure new developments have parks and open space
Create pedestrian and bike friendly economic districts/                                             opportunities
nodes                                                                                               Ensure Murray leads as a steward of the Jordan River Parkway
                                                                                                    Develop new and improve existing trailways
                                                                                                    Coordinate to create regional network of trails
                                                                                                    Green up the core of the City
                                                                                                    New developments have parks and open space opportunities




                                                                                                                                                            55
 3 - FRAMEWORK FOR THE FUTURE



               SMALL AREA PLANNING PROJECTS

                         REGIONAL CENTERS
                           Located at existing or future regional retail or employment centers and their
                           surrounding context. Including:
                           • 4500 South/State Street
                           • IMC/Murray High
                           • I-15/5300 South
                           • Fashion Place Mall

                          COMMUNITY CENTERS/NODES
                              Located at existing or future city, retail, or employment centers. Including:
                              •    Downtown Murray/City Center             •    900 East/5600 South
                              •    TOSH                                    •    900 East/5900 South
                              •    4500 South/500 West                     •    900 East/Winchester
                              •    4500 South/700 East
                              •    4800 South/900 East


                           NEIGHBORHOOD CENTERS/NODES
                          Located at existing or future key intersections within neighborhoods. Including:
                          •       1300 East/5600 South                     •     700 West/Winchester St
                          •       1300 East/5900 South                     •     Jordan River Parkway/5300 South
                          •       600 East/Creekview Cr.                   •     Jordan River Parkway/Winchester St
                          •       Vine St/Glenn St
                          •       700 West/5900 South

                          RAIL TRANSIT ORIENTED DEVELOPMENTS
                          Located at TRAX and FrontRunner Stations and up to 1 mile around. Including:
                          •       Murray North
                          •       Murray Central
                          •       Fashion Place West


                         BUS RAPID TRANSIT VILLAGE NODES
                          Located at major intersections along State Street. Including:
                          •       4500 South                           •       5900 South
                          •       4800 South                           •       Winchester Street
                          •       Vine Street
                          •       5300 South
                          •       5600 South




56
                                    3 - FRAMEWORK FOR THE FUTURE



                        SMALL AREA PLANS MAP




LEGEND

   Regional Center      TOD Node

   City/Retail Center   BRT Station Village


   Neighborhood Node




                                                               57
                                                                                         4 - BEST PRACTICES


CHAPTER FOUR: BEST PRACTICES




4.1 RESOURCES + REFERENCES

The best practices referenced in this section are resources for the implementation of the Five Key
Initiatives and the goals, objectives, and strategies of the plan elements in Part Two.

Most of the Best Practices are specific references that are intended to be just one of many resources
for a more comprehensive topic. For example, the ASLA Healthy and Livable Communities Toolkit is
listed as one of four resources for the Livable & Vibrant Neighborhoods initiative. This best practice
resource may also be used as a reference for other ideas and objectives in other parts of the General
Plan elements.




                                                                                                         59
4 - BEST PRACTICES

                     APA MODEL SMART GROWTH CODES

                     The APA report provides planners and policy makers with a tool to
                     make better land development decisions that ultimately result in more
                     compact, walkable, mixed-use cities. The report enables policy makers
                     with a means of updating and creating new regulations for smarter
                     community growth. Multiple models of smart growth ordinances are
                     explored in the document, providing users with several options for
                     framing desired growth. Some of these ordinances include: Mixed-Use
                     Zoning, Town Center Zoning, Affordable Housing Density, Transfer
                     Development Rights, Transit Oriented Development, and Form Based
                     Code Overview.
                     More information found at: www.planning.org/research/smartgrowth/



                     ASLA HEALTHY + LIVABLE COMMUNITIES TOOLKITS

                     The American Society of Landscape Architects (ASLA) offers several
                     toolkits on how to create a better built environment. Toolkits are
                     how theories are put into practice. Each “tool” in a toolkit is a best
                     practice. Three of their toolkits—Sustainable Transportation, Healthy
                     and Livable Communities, and Sustainable Urban Development—are
                     applicable for Murray City. Each toolkit is divided into the following
                     sections:
                         • Organizations
                          • Resources
                         • Research
                         • Projects
                     More information found at: www.asla.org/livable.aspx



                     ASLA SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORTATION TOOLKIT

                     Transportation: The character of transportation corridors determines
                     the form, pattern and sense of place in communities. Transportation
                     infrastructure, such as roads, intersections, alleys, and parking
                     lots, together account for 20 to 40% of urban land. Sustainable
                     transportation follows best practices for transportation that integrates
                     driving, biking, and walking with the natural environment to create
                     multi-modal systems that are safe, beautiful, and comfortable.
                     More information found at: www.asla.org/sustainabletransportation.aspx




60
                                                                            4 - BEST PRACTICES

ASLA SUSTAINABLE URBAN DEVELOPMENT TOOLKIT

Urban Development: Sustainable, livable communities are built on the
principles of interconnected green space, multi-modal transportation,
and mixed-use development. Connections are made through an
integrated network of sidewalks, trails, bike lanes, transit stops, and
streets. A variety of building uses including, commercial, institutional,
educational, and housing are readily accessible. Following these
practices creates not only an environmentally sustainable city, but a
healthier population, both physically and socially.
More information found at: www.asla.org/sustainableurbandevelopment.aspx



COMPLETE STREETS

Complete Streets are a means of providing multiple modes of
transportation on the streets of a community. The streets then become
accessible to users of all ages and ability. This principle is guided by
the approach that no street is the same and therefore must respond to
community context. Components of a Complete Street may include:
sidewalks, bicycle facilities (bike lanes or cycle tracks), separated bus
lanes, well designed transit stops, frequent and safe street crossing,
median islands, narrower travel lanes, and roundabouts. Complete
Streets aesthetically become more appealing through streetscape
treatment by means such as street trees, landscaped medians, street
lights, and benches. This approach to streets begins by retrofitting
existing street networks that suffer from congestion and low
productivity, to become balanced and far more efficient system that
not only provides more choice for transportation, but also provides a
means for a more active and healthy community. In the future, when
new streets are created, the application of Complete Street principles
will ensure an attractive and efficient street network. An ideal Complete
Street Policy entails a vision set out by the community, identifying the
wants and needs of its residents for its streets. Flexibility and balance
directed towards users’ needs will ensure a successful street.
More information found at: www.smartgrowthamerica.org/complete-streets




                                                                                            61
4 - BEST PRACTICES

                     COMPLETE STREETS LOCAL POLICY WORKBOOK

                     The Complete Street Workbook provides an easy framework for
                     creating a start-to-finish implementation of Complete Street
                     policies with a city. The process outlined guides the user through
                     the tasks of selecting the appropriate policies, creating vision,
                     community involvement, best practice elements, and steps towards
                     implementation.
                     More information found at: www.smartgrowthamerica.org/guides/complete-streets-
                     local-policy-workbook/




                     FORM-BASED CODE

                     Form-Based Code provides an alternative solution to the standard,
                     yet not necessarily effective, model of zoning by integrating uses
                     and allowing for more efficient and vibrant community design.
                     Manuals have been created for the use of city leaders as a means of
                     implementing a Form-Based Code, appropriate to their municipality.
                     Some elements of a Form-Based Code include:

                         • Regulating Plan: A plan that defines the locations for which
                           different building standards apply

                         • Public Standards: Defines the standards of design for 		
                           components found in the public realm such as sidewalks, street
                           trees, furniture, and lighting.

                         • Building Standards: Sets out the expectations related to 		
                         configurations, building function, and features.

                     Additional parameters that would be incorporated in the document
                     include architectural, landscape, environmental resource, and signage
                     standards.
                     More information found at: www.formbasedcodes.org/




62
                                                                             4 - BEST PRACTICES

LEED NEIGHBORHOOD DEVELOPMENT (LEED-ND)

LEED Certification has extended beyond sustainable building design
to include standards for better neighborhood development. These
standards promote better overall health, quality of life, and enhance
the natural environment. LEED standards can be utilized when revising
new codes and regulations for cities. Some categories eligible for credit:

    • Smart Location and Linkage: Diminish the impact of sprawl
      on the natural environment by consideration of location of
      development and available access to alternative transportation

    • Neighborhood Pattern and Design: Creating more efficient,
      vibrant, and healthy communities by creating walkable, mixed-
      use neighborhoods

    • Green Infrastructure and Buildings: Creating buildings and
      infrastructure in such a way that reduces energy and water use,
      reuses existing structures, and utilizes more sustainable 		
      materials in the construction of new or repurposed buildings
More information found at: www.usgbc.org/guide/nd



LIFE-CYCLE HOUSING

Life-cycle Housing involves reintroducing the model of providing a mix
of housing types in a location. Typical suburban development tends to
segregate people based on their stages in life. By addressing all stages,
ranging from the retired empty nesters, the fixed-income student, to
the aging grandparent, a wide variety of individuals and families live in
proximity to each other, creating a more dynamic social environment.

    • Accessory Dwelling Units: units are either attached 		
      to or exist on the same property as the single family home.
      These homes provide alternative housing options for those
      wishing to live in a neighborhood with homes that may be 		
      otherwise too large or expensive.

    • “Missing Middle” Housing Types: a term created to identify the
      housing types frequently left out of new development. These
      housing types include duplexes, courtyard apartments, 		
      townhouses, and live/work housing. These models are necessary
      in providing homes that are compatible in scale with single
      family homes, but still allow for walkable communities.

    • Mixed housing types in one ‘neighborhood’ provide the 		
      opportunity for people to remain in the same area, where they
      are familiar with the people and services nearby.
More information found at: www.missingmiddlehousing.com/


                                                                                            63
4 - BEST PRACTICES

                     NACTO URBAN STREET DESIGN GUIDELINES

                     The Urban Street Design Guide is a manual created for municipalities
                     to utilize as a blueprint for higher quality and efficient street design.
                     Given the prolific number of streets in most American cities, the guide
                     seeks to outline a clear vision for street development and how to best
                     implement quality design practices. Given the principle that each
                     city is different and presented with its own unique challenges and
                     opportunities related to their streets, the manual provides three levels
                     of guidance: Critical Features, Recommended Features, and Optional
                     Features. Critical Features consist of design elements that are mutually
                     agreed upon as unquestionably necessary for success. Recommended
                     Features suggest implementation of elements that provide added value
                     and are seen a certainly beneficial, though not absolutely necessary.
                     The final level of guidance, Optional Features, set out situational
                     dependent suggestions that could enhance the street network,
                     provided they are utilized in the appropriate scenario.
                     More information found at: www.nacto.org/publication/urban-street-design-guide/




                     NACTO URBAN BIKEWAY DESIGN GUIDE

                     Similar to the Urban Street Design Guidelines, the Bikeway Design
                     Guide provides municipalities a clear and efficient manual for creating
                     safe and enjoyable streets for bicyclists. Given the recognized value of
                     building accessible roads for cyclists, this manual provides an effective
                     strategy for such implementation. The manual seeks to overcome the
                     deficiencies of standard practices set out by AASHTO and invite cities
                     to create context-appropriate solutions for their city. The guide sets
                     out design guidelines based on three levels: Required, Recommended,
                     and Optional. Understanding the complex nature of individual
                     locations, these guides provided planners, engineers, and designers
                     with a malleable framework, allowing them to create a bicycle friendly
                     environment that is appropriate to their residents’ needs.
                     More information found at: www.sustainablesites.org/




64
                                                                                   4 - BEST PRACTICES

NEW JERSEY MANUAL OF BEST PRACTICES FOR
TRANSIT ORIENTED DEVELOPMENT

This document provides a basic and succinct framework for
municipalities hoping to implement quality Transit Oriented
Development through a series of guidelines in site design, architecture,
and parking. The manual serves as an example on how to create design
standards that ensure cohesive, attractive, and viable development
that promotes the success of the TOD.
More information found at: www.state.nj.us/transportation/community/village/pdf/
todbestpracticesmanual2013.pdf




SITES

The Sustainable Sites Initiative, SITES, is a is an interdisciplinary effort
by the American Society of Landscape Architects (ASLA), the Lady Bird
Johnson Wildflower Center at The University of Texas at Austin and the
United States Botanic Garden to create voluntary national guidelines
and performance benchmarks for sustainable land design, construction
and maintenance practices.

Similar to LEED, SITES is a rating system for sustainable landscapes.
As urbanization and development continue, that growth “profoundly
impacts ecological systems as well as the health, safety, and welfare of
our communities.” Buildings, infrastructure and other components of a
city should not be built without regard to their impacts on ecologically
resources and the quality of life of a community. The SITES rating
system consists of 10 areas. Prerequisites are required in 9 of the 10
areas before a project is eligible for certification. Certification levels
vary depending on how many points a project achieves. Like LEED,
SITES is administered by Green Business Certification Inc. (GBCI).
More information found at: www.sustainablesites.org/




                                                                                                  65
4 - BEST PRACTICES

                     THE SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR’S STANDARDS

                     The Secretary of the Interior’s Standards for the Treatment of Historic
                     Properties are common-sense historic preservation principles in non-
                     technical language. They promote historic preservation best practices
                     that help to protect our nation’s irreplaceable cultural resources.
                     There are standards for four distinct, but interrelated, approaches
                     to the treatment of historic properties - preservation, rehabilitation,
                     restoration, and reconstruction.

                     More information found at: https://www.nps.gov/tps/standards.htm



                     WALKABLE AND LIVABLE COMMUNITIES INSTITUTE
                     TOWNMAKER’S GUIDE: HEALTHY BUILDING
                     PLACEMENT BEST PRACTICE

                     The success of creating a walkable, pedestrian focused community
                     is significantly affected by building placement. Failure to do so often
                     results in the post 1950s standard of suburban sprawl, where the
                     automobile is given precedence, creating vast landscapes of parking
                     lots dotted by disconnected box store development. By identifying five
                     crucial areas of the urban form, proper treatment to these components
                     can result in an attractive, accessible, and desirable city environment.
                     Best practices for building placement identify the following
                     components for consideration:

                         • Edges: Well-designed edges, such as buildings that line the
                           sidewalk, provide a sense of enclosure and define the space
                           for the pedestrian. Street trees along edges are an important
                           component in created a satisfying experience for pedestrians.

                         • Sidewalks: Sidewalk width should accommodate a variety of
                           uses, including strolling, standing, sitting, as well as quick 		
                           moving pedestrians.

                         • Parking: Place parking on the street, or in lots that are 		
                           discreetly screened through careful building placement.

                         • Buildings: Quality building design, including not only form,
                           but material selection and visibility from within and outside
                           the building enliven the street edge and create an attractive
                           urban environment.

                         • Character: Buildings should create an identity and sense of
                           place for the location it is found in.

                     More information found at: www.walklive.org/walkability/



66
                                                                                  4 - BEST PRACTICES

TRANSIT-SUPPORTIVE NEIGHBORHOODS

While much literature and resources are available regarding Transit-
Oriented Development (TOD), the overwhelming majority focuses
on the immediate area around the station out to one-quarter or
one-half mile. The surrounding context beyond the half-mile is often
overlooked as an important component to the success of the transit
station. Expanding the perspective to consider the broader context
moves beyond TOD to planning and designing for transit-supportive
neighborhoods. Another term to describe these neighborhoods is
“Complete Neighborhoods”.

More information found at: https://www.metro.net/projects/tod-toolkit/complete-
neighborhoods/




                                                                                                 67
2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN
    2017 MURRAY
   GENERAL PLAN


    PART TWO:
COMMUNITY PLANNING
    ELEMENTS
                PART TWO: CONTENTS

PART TWO CHAPTER STRUCTURE
Section 1 What We Know
Section 2 How Does This Help Us Plan for the Future?
Section 3 Chapter Goal, Objectives, & Strategies

5 - LAND USE & URBAN DESIGN
6 - TRANSPORTATION SYSTEMS
7 - ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
8 - HOUSING & NEIGHBORHOODS
9 - MODERATE INCOME HOUSING
10 - PUBLIC SERVICES
10.1 Parks/Trails/Open Space
10.2 Nature & Environment & Infrastructure & Resilience
10.3 Community, Culture, & Historic Preservation

11 - PLAN ADMINISTRATION &
     IMPLEMENTATION
                                                                               5 – LAND USE & URBAN DESIGN



CHAPTER 5 - LAND USE AND URBAN DESIGN

Ideally, land use and zoning go hand-in-hand. Zoning is the means by which land within a city is divided into
different land uses and building types. As Murray changed over time from agriculture to urban, zoning allowed the
City to guide where particular types of land uses occur. Some areas, such as the majority of single family
neighborhoods, are anticipated to remain stable and not change to a different land use type. Other areas, such as
those along the TRAX line, are anticipated to change from industrial to commercial or mixed-uses. Addressing
land use and zoning in this general plan is proactively preparing for anticipated change.

The purpose of the land use and urban design
chapter is to effectively and efficiently provide a
framework for carrying out the goals and policies of
the General Plan through land use designations and
the Future Land Use Map, the Zoning Map, and the
Zoning Code. This chapter describes each of the
future land use designations in Murray City and
discusses how they relate to existing and proposed
zoning. The relationship between land use
designations and zoning is important so that as base
zones and the Zoning Code are amended over the
life of the General Plan, the goals and objectives of
the plan are consistently carried out. The future land
use map created for this General Plan was developed
and informed by the City’s previous version of the
future land use map. The updated future land use map reflects the goals and objectives set out by the City
through the process of the General Plan update. Other maps, such as each of the framework maps in the Five Key
Initiatives, also inform land use and planning. For example, the identification of neighborhood nodes, key centers
of employment and retail, and station villages around transit. Implementation actions regarding land use and
urban design are also related to these maps, such as the recommendation to conduct Small Area Plans when
there is a need to examine the areas around identified nodes and centers in more detail before land use and
zoning decisions are made.




2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                                          PAGE | 5-1
  5 – LAND USE & URBAN DESIGN


  LAND USE & URBAN DESIGN GOAL AND SUPPORTING OBJECTIVES




                                                             Preserve and protect
                                                            the quality of life for a
                                                                range of viable
                                    Support the                   residential                  Encourage
                              Intermountain Medical            neighborhoods            revitalization along key
                               Center (IMC) through
                                                                                        transportation corridors
                                  compatible and
                                                                                          and in the core of the
                               complementary land
                                                                                                   city.
                                       uses.


       Stimulate reinvestment                                                                                    Encourage a form-
       in deteriorating areas of                                                                                 based development
          the city to support                                                                                     pattern at smaller
         growth and enhance                                                                                     commercial nodes to
           the image of the                                                                                   support multiple modes
             community.                                                                                        of access and mobility.



                                                           GOAL: Provide and                                                Support the
                                                          promote a mix of land                                          transformation of
                                                                                                                         existing industrial,
Promote a transition of                                  uses and development                                         where appropriate, into
development patterns                                     patterns that support a                                      high quality and visually
 between commercial
   areas and stable                                        healthy community                                            appealing industrial
                                                           comprised of livable                                        uses that can support
      residential
                                                                                                                        the city’s economic
   neighborhoods.                                        neighborhoods, vibrant                                         sustainability while
                                                         economic districts, and                                         strengthening the
                                                         appealing open spaces.                                          image of the city.

           Provide a mix of
         housing options and
         residential zones to                                                                                   Support a range of
        meet a diverse range of                                                                                    commercial
           needs related to                                                                                   development scales to
             lifestyle and                                                                                     serve local residents
           demographics,                                                                                      and regional shoppers
            including age,                                                                                       and employers.
         household size, and
                income.
                               Continue to ensure the
                                                                                          Encourage a form-
                               location and pattern of
                                                                                         based and mixed use
                              new development does
                                                                                        development pattern to
                                not negatively impact
                                                                                        connect downtown and
                              the natural systems and      Provide complementary        the TOD areas through
                                spaces within Murray        uses around key civic            urban design.
                                        City.              spaces including Murray
                                                             Park, the library, and
                                                                   CIty Hall.




  2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                                                              PAGE | 5-2
                                                                                          5 – LAND USE & URBAN DESIGN


5.1 WHAT WE KNOW

Within the boundaries of Murray, a total of nearly 7,500 acres is utilized by a range of land uses and supporting
infrastructure systems.


MURRAY’S URBAN FORM

The original grid of Murray is a limited portion of the current boundary. The urban form shifted from the original
modified grid surrounding by agricultural uses to a more suburban style of urban form. Contemporary subdivision
patterns of urban form are seen in most neighborhoods outside of the historic districts. Transportation and auto-
oriented commercial have directed the urban form of the main corridors.




Figure 5.1 Erekson Farm and Dairy                 Figure 5.2 Erekson Farm surrounded by    Figure 5.3 Murray suburban
                                                  new development                          development pattern




Figure 5.1 1911 Sanborn Map of State Street, Vine Street, and 4800 South




2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                                                     PAGE | 5-3
5 – LAND USE & URBAN DESIGN


EXISTING LAND USES

Murray continues to have a wide mix of land uses, including residential, commercial, office, mixed-use, industrial,
public/quasi-public, and parks and open spaces.


RESIDENTIAL

Together, single-family and multi-family residential uses comprise approximately fifty-five percent of the city’s
total land acreage and account for eighty-five percent of the parcels within the city. The majority of residential
parcels are occupied by lower-density single-family detached housing units. Currently, there are 9,795 single-
family residential units in Murray. Murray has approximately 4,200 multi-family residential units, located in
multiple complexes of various sizes. Much of the multi-family housing in Murray is clustered into pods rather than
integrated into neighborhoods (like you might see in Salt Lake City.) Over half of the multi-family housing units
(2,761 units) are located in apartment complexes with ninety-nine or more units. Large concentrations of multi-
family housing place different demands on public services, including schools.


RETAIL

Murray boasts a healthy commercial land use. Much of the commercial is centered along the State Street corridor,
with a range of commercial types from automobile dealerships, malls, and the historic downtown core. Other
commercial nodes exist at key intersections and/or near the interstate exits. The majority of the commercial land
uses within the city are auto-oriented.


OFFICE

Office currently represents only 4% of the total land acreage in Murray. Most office space is dispersed, with a few
small clusters. Office space ranges from small individual buildings in neighborhoods to larger buildings in
commercial areas.


CIVIC/INSTITUTIONAL

These uses include public, quasi-public, civic, and institutional uses. Major institutional uses include the
Intermountain Medical Center (IMC), American International School of Utah (AISU), The Orthopedic Specialty
Hospital (TOSH), and the Murray civic center.


INDUSTRIAL

Along the interstate and rail corridors, many industrial uses remain within the Murray city limits. These continue
to provide an important component of Murray’s tax base. However, many could benefit from a visual upgrade.


VACANT LAND

A limited amount of land remains vacant within Murray City boundaries. This contributes to the perception of
residents considering Murray to be ‘built out’, as limited land is available to be developed that is vacant. However,
layers of growth and change and redevelopment contradict the ‘built out’ perception. The vacant land that
remains is considered ‘developable’ (i.e. not sensitive land and/or designated for infrastructure).


2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                                            PAGE | 5-4
                                                              5 – LAND USE & URBAN DESIGN




                 Existing Land Use Distribution
                 Residential Mixed-
                                      Vacant Land
                        Use
                                          2%
                        0%



                                              Commercial/Retail
                                                   10%


                                                                       Industrial
                                                                          9%


                                                                                    Office
                                                                                     4%



 Single-Family
  Residential                                                     Parks and Open
      46%                                                              Space
                                                                        12%




                                                          Public (quasi public)
                                                           Schools, Churches,
                                                              Governmnt
                                                                   8%
                                           Multi-Family
                                           Residential
                                               9%




2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                        PAGE | 5-5
5 – LAND USE & URBAN DESIGN


ZONING

In some cases, existing land use differs from the current zoning designation (e.g. multi-family uses in single-family
zones, etc.) The current zoning includes twenty-one zones. The following chart displays the distribution of
acreage within each of these zones. Similar to the existing land use distribution, low-density single family
residential zones comprise the majority of the acreage.




                                                        Acres by Zoning Designations
                     R-1-8   Low density single family
          C-D-C Commercial development conditional
             M-G-C Manufacturing general conditional
                                  O-S         Open space
                     R-1-10 Low density single family
                                  A-1         Agricultural
                  R-M-10 Low density multiple family
                 T-O-D Transit oriented development
                                G-O         General office
              R-M-15 Medium density multiple family
               M-U    Mixed Use Development District
                     R-1-6   Low density single family                                                  Acres
                     R-M-H   Residential mobile home
                   M-C-C-D Murray City Center District
                  R-M-20 High density multiple family
          C-N-C Commercial neighborhood conditional
                                        H        Hospital
                                                   (blank)
                  R-M-25 High density multiple family
                     R-1-12 Low density single family
             R-N-B Residential neighborhood business
                     R-2-10 Medium density two family

                                                             0   500     1000    1500   2000   2500


EXISTING LAND USE DISTRIBUTION MAPS

A visual distribution of the existing land use is represented on the following series of maps:

        Map 1: Single-family Residential
        Map 2: Multi-family Residential
        Map 3: Commercial
        Map 4: Parks/Open Space & Public/Quasi-Public
        Map 5: Office and Industrial
        Map 6: Vacant




2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                                                   PAGE | 5-6
                                                                                                5 – LAND USE & URBAN DESIGN




                                                                                           MAP 5.1: EXISTING LAND USE:

                                                                                           SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL




Map 5.1: Single-family Residential – Single-family residential neighborhoods still comprise the majority of the existing land uses in
Murray City. Neighborhoods are well-distributed across the city, with the exception of the northwest corner of the city.




                                                                                          MAP 5.2: EXISTING LAND USE:

                                                                                          MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL




Map 5.2: Multi-family Residential – Multi-family housing is distributed in small clusters across the city (density increases with shade
gradient). However, in many cases these housing types are not integrated into existing neighborhoods. Rather, clusters exist adjacent
to single-family residential areas.




 2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                                                             PAGE | 5-7
5 – LAND USE & URBAN DESIGN




                                                                                       MAP 5.3: EXISTING LAND USE:

                                                                                       COMMERCIAL




Map 5.3: Commercial – Murray’s commercial areas are concentrated along the primary transportation corridor of State Street Other
commercial areas exist in a more nodal fashion along 900 East and 4800 South, and at the Interstate-15 exits of 4500 South and 5300
South.




                                                                                       MAP 5.4: EXISTING LAND USE:

                                                                                       PARKS/OPEN SPACE &
                                                                                       PUBLIC/QUASI-PUBLIC




Map 5.4: Parks/Open Space & Public/Quasi-Public – Murray offers several large-scale parks and open space amenities (in green) across
the city. Smaller neighborhood or pocket parks, however, are somewhat limited, especially on the east side.




2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                                                          PAGE | 5-8
                                                                                                   5 – LAND USE & URBAN DESIGN




                                                                                             MAP 5.5: EXISTING LAND USE:

                                                                                             OFFICE & INDUSTRIAL




Map 5.5: Office and Industrial – Industrial uses (in gray) are focused along the spine of Interstate-15 and the rail corridor. Office uses (in
mauve) are distributed across the city, in small nodes and along primary and secondary transportation corridors.




                                                                                              MAP 5.6: EXISTING LAND USE:

                                                                                              VACANT LAND




Map 5.6: Vacant – Little vacant land remains in Murray City. The majority of vacant parcels, colored light green, are located on the west
side. A few parcels of vacant land are located east of State Street.




 2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                                                                 PAGE | 5-9
5 – LAND USE & URBAN DESIGN


5.2 – HOW DOES THIS HELP US PLAN FOR THE FUTURE

The update to the General Plan is an opportunity to assess how land use changes may affect the long-term
demands on public services and Murray’s position as a regional center. Day and night time population place
demands on services and have different needs.

The plan will facilitate the City’s ability to have long-term decision-making address and accommodate a growing
population that desires a central, regional location with good accessibility via multiple modes of transportation.


FUTURE LAND USE DESIGNATIONS

Part of the policy for General Plans is to apply a land use designation to all land and water bodies within the City’s
boundaries. During the plan process, the designation that best advances the goals of the General Plan Update has
been identified. The land use designations are shown on the adopted Future Land Use Map (Map 5.7) and then
used to create and update the Zoning Map and Zoning Code.

The previous 2003 General Plan and Future Land Use Map provided the basis for the adopted map in this General
Plan. A systematic evaluation of existing land use designations, current zoning, and potential future uses based on
the initiatives of the General Plan was undertaken in the process of developing the Future Land Use Map. To
support the key initiatives of the General Plan, the need for new future land use designations became apparent.
These new designations will help the city implement the ideas within the key initiatives and achieve the goals and
objectives of the various plan elements.


NODES

The Future Land Use Map and polices in the General Plan Part One Key Initiatives identify specific areas of Murray
that are planned to accommodate a more flexible mix of uses, where job and housing growth can occur as an
effort to both provide amenities to surrounding residential neighborhoods and to stabilize those neighborhoods
by preventing unplanned creep/growth.

Two types of nodes are indicated on the Future Land Use Map:

        Community Nodes
        Neighborhood Nodes

The planned location of these nodes supports the City’s long-term goal of emphasizing growth within the City
Center and Transit Oriented Development areas, and focusing new job and housing options in identified transit
corridors, transit station area, community centers/nodes, and neighborhood centers/nodes. The specific
characteristics of each node will vary based on the surrounding context and future area-specific Small Area Plans.


COMMUNITY NODES

Community Nodes include vacant or under-utilized lands in existing, larger-scaled commercial areas (e.g. Fashion
Place Mall) and the City Center and TOD areas, which include vacant or under-utilized lands within proximity of
existing transit and transportation infrastructure/facilities.




2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                                             PAGE | 5-10
                                                                                   5 – LAND USE & URBAN DESIGN


NEIGHBORHOOD NODES

Neighborhood Nodes are smaller neighborhood-oriented sites with redevelopment potential (e.g. strip malls) or
smaller-scaled amenities. While some of these Neighborhood Nodes are not located in proximity to major transit
facilities, their diversification and recrafting in a pedestrian-oriented manner could serve to create a vibrant village
setting within easy access of surrounding nearby neighborhoods/residential areas.

For all types, it is expected that the existing amount of commercial/retail space would be retained and enhanced
as part of any redevelopment project so that existing commercial uses within Murray are not diminished.




2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                                              PAGE | 5-11
5 – LAND USE & URBAN DESIGN




 PARKS AND OPEN SPACE
 This designation is intended for lands that serve a public open
 space, recreational, or ecological function, or provide visual
 relief. These lands are primarily publicly-owned, but can be in
 private ownership. Lands/use types intended for the Open
 Space designation include: Parks, Public Plazas, Natural Areas,
 Scenic Lands, Golf Courses, Cemeteries, Open Space Buffers
 along Freeway Margins, Railroads, or abutting industrial areas;
 large water bodies.

 Corresponding zone(s):

        O-S, Open Space




 LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL
 This designation is intended for residential uses in
 established/planned neighborhoods, as well as low density
 residential on former agricultural lands. The designation is
 Murray’s most common pattern of single-dwelling
 development. It is intended for areas where urban public
 services, generally including complete local street networks
 and access to frequent transit, are available or planned. Areas
 within this designation generally have few or very minor
 development constraints (such as infrastructure or sensitive
 lands). Primary lands/use types include single-dwelling
 (detached or attached) residential.

 Density range is between 1 and 8 DU/AC.

 Corresponding zone(s):

        A-1, Agricultural
        R-1-12, Low density single family
        R-1-10, Low density single family
        R-1-8, Low density single family
        R-1-6, Low/Medium density single family
        R-2-10, Low density two family




2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                PAGE | 5-12
                                                                    5 – LAND USE & URBAN DESIGN




MEDIUM DENSITY RESIDENTIAL
This designation allows a mix of housing types that are single-
dwelling in character or smaller multi-family structures,
primarily on individual parcels. This designation is intended for
areas near, in, and along centers and corridors, near transit
station areas, where urban public services, generally including
complete local street networks and access frequent transit,
are available or planned. Areas within this designation
generally do not have development constraints (such as
infrastructure or sensitive lands). This designation can serve as
a transition between mixed-use or multi-dwelling designations
and lower density single-dwelling designations.

Density range is between 6 and 15 DU/AC.

Corresponding zone(s):

        R-1-6, Low/Medium density single family
        R-M-10, Medium density multiple family
        R-M-15, Medium density multiple family




HIGHER DENSITY RESIDENTIAL
This designation allows a mix of housing types, primarily multi-
dwelling structures. Single-dwelling types may be mixed in, but
at a denser scale than the other residential designations. This
designation is intended for areas that are near, in, and along
centers and corridors, and transit station areas, where urban
public services, generally including complete local street
networks and access to frequent transit, are available or
planned. Areas are designed to be transit-supportive. Areas
within this designation generally do not have development
constraints (such as infrastructure or sensitive lands).

Density range is between 10 and 25 DU/AC.

Corresponding zone(s):

        R-M-20, High density multiple family
        R-M-25, High density multiple family




2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                           PAGE | 5-13
5 – LAND USE & URBAN DESIGN




 TRANSIT MIXED-USE
 This designation is intended for transit station areas where a
 mixed use neighborhood is desired and urban public services,
 including access to high-capacity transit, very frequent bus
 service, or BRT/Streetcar service are available or planned. This
 designation is intended to allow high-density multi-dwelling
 structures at an urban scale that include a mix of uses, usually
 in the same building and/or complex.

 Density range is between 40 and 80 DU/AC.

 Corresponding zone(s):

         Transit oriented development, TOD
         Murray Central Mixed Use, MCMU



 VILLAGE & CENTERS MIXED USE
 The Village & Centers Mixed Use Designation is intended to
 provide an opportunity for the measured, context sensitive
 addition of residential housing to existing commercial
 properties and developments along major transportation
 corridors and in and around retail and commercial centers and
 neighborhood nodes. Allowing the introduction of residential
 uses to these areas is intended to support the goals and
 principles of mixed-use development by facilitating a more
 compact, sustainable, and pedestrian oriented land use
 pattern as these existing commercial centers and corridors
 redevelop over time.

 Density range is between 25 and 45 DU/AC.

 Corresponding zone(s):

         Centers Mixed Use, CMU
         Village Mixed Use, VMU




2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                 PAGE | 5-14
                                                                  5 – LAND USE & URBAN DESIGN




RESIDENTIAL BUSINESS
This designation allows for mixed-use, attached dwellings, or
commercial development within primarily residential
neighborhoods that is small in scale, has little impact, and
provides services for the nearby residential and/or
recreational areas (e.g. Jordan River Parkway node at
Winchester; adjacent to Wheeler Farm). Development will be
similar in scale to nearby residential development to promote
compatibility with the surrounding area. This designation is
intended for areas where urban public services are available or
planned. Areas within this designation are generally small
nodes or individual buildings along corridors rather than large
centers or complexes. Non-residential or multi-dwelling
development will follow a similar development pattern of
front setback/yard/landscaping as the surrounding residential
context.

Corresponding zone(s):

       RNB, Residential Neighborhood Business




NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL
This designation allows mixed-use development in smaller
neighborhood centers and along neighborhood corridors to
preserve or cultivate locally serving commercial areas with a
neighborhood character. This designation is intended for
areas where urban public services, generally including
complete local street networks and access to frequent transit,
are available or planned, and development constraints do not
exist. Areas within this designation are generally pedestrian-
oriented (or are desired to be) and are predominantly built at
low- to mid-rise scale, often with buildings close to and
oriented to the sidewalk.

Corresponding zone(s):

       RNB, Residential Neighborhood Business
       C-N, Commercial neighborhood
       New/Updated Neighborhood Commercial zone




2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                         PAGE | 5-15
5 – LAND USE & URBAN DESIGN




 CITY CENTER
 This designation allows for higher, transit-supportive
 densities/mixes of commercial, residential, employment uses,
 and public services, including a range of housing, retail, and
 service businesses with a local or regional market. It is intended
 for the City Center, at key intersections and along major
 corridors where urban public services are available or planned
 including access to high-capacity transit, very frequent bus
 service, or BRT/Streetcar service. The designation is applied to
 some of the City’s busiest, widest, and most prominent streets
 (e.g. State Street). As the city grows, these corridors need to
 become places that can succeed as attractive locations for
 more intense, mixed-use development. They should be
 attractive and safe for pedestrians while continuing to play a
 major role in the City’s transportation and economic system.
 Development will be pedestrian-oriented with a strong
 emphasis on design and street level activity, and will range
 from low- to mid-rise scale. The range of development scales
 associated with this designation is intended to allow for more
 intense development in core areas, along corridors and near
 transit stations, while providing opportunities for less intense
 development transitions to adjacent residential areas.

 Corresponding zone(s):

         M-C-C-D, Murray City Center District



 GENERAL COMMERCIAL
 While this designation is primarily for larger retail
 destinations, including regional shopping centers and stand-
 along big box, it may also include mixed-use developments
 that are mainly commercial in nature and use. High density,
 multi-family residential complexes will only be considered as
 part of a larger master-planned mixed-use development.
 Smaller-scale medium density residential projects may be
 considered for neighborhood or community node areas.

 Corresponding zone(s):

         C-D, Commercial development




2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                   PAGE | 5-16
                                                                  5 – LAND USE & URBAN DESIGN




PROFESSIONAL OFFICE
This designation allows for a full-range of commercial and
employment uses. This designation is intended to provide for
mixed-use areas where urban public services are available or
planned including access to high-capacity transit or
BRT/Streetcar service. The intensity of development will be
higher than in other employment designations and urban in
character. Development patterns should enhance the livability
of surrounding residential neighborhoods while contributing
to the success of nearby business areas. Developments may
be individual buildings or developed as an urban mixed-use
campus.

Corresponding zone(s):

        New P-O Zone, Professional Office
        H, Hospital



OFFICE
This designation allows for a wide range of office uses is an
environment that is compatible with adjacent residential
neighborhoods. Development patterns should enhance the
livability of surrounding residential neighborhoods while
contributing to the success of nearby business areas.
Development will generally be individual buildings or small
clusters that are scaled similar to adjacent residential areas.

Corresponding zone(s):

        G-O, General Office
        R-N-B, Residential Neighborhood Business




2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                         PAGE | 5-17
5 – LAND USE & URBAN DESIGN




 BUSINESS PARK INDUSTRIAL
 This designation is intended to allow and encourage a wide
 variety of office, creative services, manufacturing, technology,
 distribution, traded sector, and other light-industrial
 employment opportunities, typically in a low-rise, flex-space
 development pattern that is designed to be compatible with
 surrounding neighborhoods. Most employment uses are
 allowed but impact is to be minimized by design standards,
 smaller lot size, and adjacency to residential neighborhoods.
 Retail uses are allowed but are limited in intensity so as to
 maintain adequate employment development opportunities.
 Non-employment uses should be limited to retain market
 feasibility for employment uses, to prevent land use conflicts,
 and to reduce exposure to potential air quality, noise, truck
 traffic, and pedestrian safety impacts.

 Corresponding zone(s):

         New Business Park Industrial zone, Business Park
          Industrial




 INDUSTRIAL
 This designation is intended to allow a wide variety of
 manufacturing, technology, distribution, traded sector, and
 other light-industrial employment opportunities in areas where
 distribution infrastructure exists. Non-industrial uses should be
 restricted to retain market feasibility for industrial
 development, prevent land use conflicts, and reduce exposure
 to potential air quality, noise, truck traffic, and pedestrian
 safety impacts.

 Corresponding zone(s):

         M-G Manufacturing general
         New Business Park Industrial zone, Business Park
          Industrial




2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                  PAGE | 5-18
                                                  MAP
                                                  j
                                                  k   5.7 - FUTURE LAND USE
                                                                                                                                                                   Future Land Use Categories
                                                                                                                                                                        City Center




                              500 W
                                                                                                                                                                        Low Density Residential
                                                   j
                                                   k                                                                                                                    Medium Density Residential




                                                       Main St
                                                                 4500 S
                                                                                                                                                                        High Density Residential
                                                                                                                                                                        Mixed Use
                                                                                                                                                                        Neighborhood Commercial
                                                                      4800 S                                                                                            General Commercial
                                                                                                                                                                        Residential Business
                                                                                Vin
                                                                                    e   St
                                                                                                                                                                        Professional Office

                                                  j
                                                  kj                                                                                                                    Office
                                      d
                                                   k
                           rra
                              y   Bl v                                                                                                                                  Business Park Industrial
                        Mu
                                                                                             5300 S
                                                                                                                                                                        Industrial
                    5400 S
                                                                 State St
                                                                                                                                                                        Parks and Open Space


                                                                                                               5600 S                                              Node Types
                                                                                                                                                                    k Commuter Rail Node
                                                                                                                                                                    j
                700 W




                                                                                                                                                                    k TRAX Light Rail Node
                                                                                                                                                                    j




                                                                                                                                1300 E
                          5900 S
                                                                                                                                                                        Community Node
                                                                                                      5900 S
                                          300 W




                                                                                                                                                                        Neighborhood Node
                                                                       6100 S
                                                                                                                                                                        City Boundary

                                                                                                                                         6400 S
                                                                                                                        900 E




                                                                                                                                                                                              µ
                                            j
                                            k
         r St
Wincheste




                                                                                                                                                  0   0.25   0.5    1            1.5           2
                                                                                                                                                                                                Miles
                                                                                5 – LAND USE & URBAN DESIGN


5.3 LAND USE & URBAN DESIGN GOAL, OBJECTIVES, & STRATEGIES


LAND USE & URBAN DESIGN OVERALL GOAL

Provide and promote a mix of land uses and development patterns that support a healthy community comprised
of livable neighborhoods, vibrant economic districts, and appealing open spaces.


LAND USE & URBAN DESIGN OBJECTIVES & STRATEGIES

OBJECTIVE 1: PRESERVE AND PROTECT THE QUALITY OF LIFE FOR A RANGE OF VIABLE RESIDENTIAL
NEIGHBORHOODS.

        Strategy: Prioritize infill and redevelopment for commercial development over expansion into
        residential neighborhoods.

        Strategy: Develop form-based development and design guidelines that guide the quality of projects.

        Strategy: Enhance residential streets with street trees, landscaping (in park strips and front setbacks),
        and pedestrian-scale lighting.

OBJECTIVE 2: ENCOURAGE REVITALIZATION ALONG KEY TRANSPORTATION CORRIDORS AND IN THE
CORE OF THE CITY.

        Strategy: Develop context-specific corridor plans to guide coordinated land use and transportation
        improvements.

        Strategy: Offer zoning, density, street improvements and other indirect incentives for areas targeted for
        revitalization.

OBJECTIVE 3: ENCOURAGE A FORM-BASED DEVELOPMENT PATTERN AT SMALLER COMMERCIAL NODES
TO SUPPORT MULTIPLE MODES OF ACCESS AND MOBILITY.

        Strategy: Create a neighborhood mixed-use zone designation and support it with form-based
        development and design guidelines.

OBJECTIVE 4: SUPPORT THE TRANSFORMATION OF EXISTING INDUSTRIAL, WHERE APPROPRIATE, INTO
HIGH QUALITY AND VISUALLY APPEALING INDUSTRIAL USES THAT CAN SUPPORT THE CITY’S ECONOMIC
SUSTAINABILITY WHILE STRENGTHENING THE IMAGE OF THE CITY.

        Strategy: Create an industrial/business park zone designation and support it with form-based
        development and design guidelines.

OBJECTIVE 5: SUPPORT A RANGE OF COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT SCALES TO SERVE LOCAL RESIDENTS
AND REGIONAL SHOPPERS AND EMPLOYERS.

        Strategy: Evaluate current commercial uses and create a range of commercial zone designations to
        direct context-sensitive commercial development (e.g. Pedestrian-oriented, neighborhood scale
        commercial in Neighborhood Centers; General commercial along major transportation corridors and/or
        in Commercial Centers.)


2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                                           PAGE | 5-19
5 – LAND USE & URBAN DESIGN


OBJECTIVE 6: ENCOURAGE A FORM-BASED AND MIXED USE DEVELOPMENT PATTERN TO CONNECT
DOWNTOWN AND THE TOD AREAS THROUGH URBAN DESIGN.

      Strategy: Change zoning in targeted areas to allow for form-based mixed use development.

OBJECTIVE 7: PROVIDE COMPLEMENTARY USES AROUND KEY CIVIC SPACES INCLUDING MURRAY PARK,
THE LIBRARY, AND CITY HALL.

      Strategy: Identify desired land uses near City Hall, the Library, Murray Park, and other places then work
      with potential developers to bring those uses to the targeted areas. Support with zoning that facilitates
      complementary development patterns.

OBJECTIVE 8: CONTINUE TO ENSURE THE LOCATION AND PATTERN OF NEW DEVELOPMENT DOES NOT
NEGATIVELY IMPACT THE NATURAL SYSTEMS AND SPACES WITHIN MURRAY CITY.

      Strategy: Create a master plan for natural systems and spaces.

      Strategy: Ensure development regulations offer appropriate buffering.

OBJECTIVE 9: PROVIDE A MIX OF HOUSING OPTIONS AND RESIDENTIAL ZONES TO MEET A DIVERSE
RANGE OF NEEDS RELATED TO LIFESTYLE AND DEMOGRAPHICS, INCLUDING AGE, HOUSEHOLD SIZE, AND
INCOME.

      Strategy: Ensure residential zoning designations offer the opportunity for a spectrum of housing types.

      Strategy: Simplify the residential zoning district designations.

OBJECTIVE 10: PROMOTE A TRANSITION OF DEVELOPMENT PATTERNS BETWEEN COMMERCIAL AREAS
AND STABLE RESIDENTIAL NEIGHBORHOODS.

      Strategy: Support transitions with form-based development and design guidelines.

      Strategy: Review zoning to ensure that parcels have the appropriate designation to allow for a transition
      of uses.

      Strategy: Adopt more detailed and specific landscape and tree requirements for buffers between
      commercial and residential areas. Trees must be used as a buffering mechanism; walls alone are not an
      accepted buffering mechanism.

OBJECTIVE 11: STIMULATE REINVESTMENT IN DETERIORATING AREAS OF THE CITY TO SUPPORT GROWTH
AND ENHANCE THE IMAGE OF THE COMMUNITY.

      Strategy: Offer zoning, density, street improvements and other indirect incentives for areas targeted for
      revitalization.

OBJECTIVE 12: SUPPORT THE INTERMOUNTAIN MEDICAL CENTER (IMC) THROUGH COMPATIBLE AND
COMPLEMENTARY LAND USES.

      Strategy: Identify desired uses and work with potential developers to bring those uses to the targeted
      areas. Support with zoning that facilitates complementary development patterns.



2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                                        PAGE | 5-20
                                                                                  6 – TRANSPORTATION SYSTEMS




CHAPTER 6 - TRANSPORTATION SYSTEMS

Murray’s size and location in the middle of the Salt Lake Valley tremendously influence the variety of mobility
options in its transportation system. Current options for mobility include a roadway network with local streets,
collectors, arterials and access to both I-15 and I-215 freeways. Non-automobile mobility options include some
sidewalks, pedestrian facilities such as crosswalks, a few streets with bicycle lanes, ten bus routes, three light-rail
stations and one commuter rail station.

Given uncertain fuel prices of recent years
combined with concerns regarding the long-term
negative public health consequences of sedentary
lifestyles, it is important that Murray City listens
to comments received during the public input
process. Numerous comments expressed a desire
for a more walkable and bikeable city. When the
concept of a City Geared Toward Multi-Modality
was presented to the public as a Key Initiative (see
part One), it received strong support.




2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                                                      PAGE | 6-1
6 – TRANSPORTATION SYSTEMS


TRANSPORTATION SYSTEMS GOAL AND SUPPORTING OBJECTIVES


                                                   Provide safe and
                                                        efficient
                                                    movement of
                                                    traffic on City
                         Support regional            streets while       Promote the use
                         cooperation and           maintaining the         of alternative
                          coordination in             integrity of        transportation
                        regard to all types        neighborhoods.       systems, including
                        of transportation                                  mass transit,
                           systems and                                   pedestrian, and
                              modes.                                        bike travel.

      Proactively guide the
     look and feel of major
           corridors by                                                                       Support
       developing detailed                                                               residential traffic
         context-specific                         GOAL: Provide an                         calming where
     concept plans to guide                         efficient and                         proven effective
      future improvements                                                                and cost efficient.
        on City and UDOT                       comprehensive multi-
       managed roadways.                       modal transportation
                                              system that effectively
                                                serves residents and
                                                                                               Utilize
            Ensure                               integrates with the                       transportation
       transportation &                       regional transportation                        corridors as
      mobility decisions                        plan for the Wasatch                      opportunities to
        are made with                                                                       showcase the
      respect to existing                               Front.                            image of Murray
          and future                                                                        City through
         adjacent land                                                                   beautification and
             uses.                                                                          urban design.
                                                                           Optimize the
                                                                             existing
                         Promote transit
                                                                          transportation
                             oriented
                                                                            network to
                        development and
                                                                         effectively meet
                         connectivity to               Enhance
                                                                        current and future
                          transit station            connectivity
                                                                          needs without
                              areas.                 between city
                                                                          compromising
                                                     destinations,
                                                                           quality of life.
                                                   neighborhoods,
                                                   transit stations,
                                                   and open spaces.




2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                                                PAGE | 6-2
                                                                                6 – TRANSPORTATION SYSTEMS



6.1 WHAT WE KNOW


KEY POINTS

    •   Overall, traffic volumes in Murray have not substantially increased on either arterials or collectors.
    •   There are 69 traffic signals in Murray. Of these, 40 are owned and maintained by UDOT. Murray owns the
        remaining 29 signals and they are maintained by Salt Lake County.
    •   A decline in the use of transit for work has occurred in the last decade in Murray; statewide has seen an
        increase.
    •   People would like to walk more but do not always feel safe in doing so or feel that destinations are not
        easily reachable by foot. (e.g. People have to cross large parking lots to get to a store entrance.)
    •   People would like to bike more but do not always feel safe in doing so.
    •   Residents continue to be concerned about traffic impacts (volume and congestion overflow) on the
        livability of neighborhoods.
    •   Cottonwood Street, identified in the 2003 General Plan, has an identified Preferred Alternative for future
        alignment that resulted from an Environmental Assessment completed in 2011. Construction is
        dependent on funding.
    •   The existing three TRAX light rail stations in Murray City may be better utilized by providing appropriate
        land uses around the stations to make them more of a destination than just park and ride lots or transfer
        stations. The development near the Fireclay Station is a good start.
    •   With regional commuter rail, Murray City has a huge opportunity to become a suburban commercial
        destination for office development. The development of work destinations in suburban areas has created
        reverse commute riders who live in city centers and work in the suburbs.

EXISTING TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE

The transportation infrastructure in Murray is comprised of several components: roadway network, bikeways, and
pedestrian ways.

ROADWAY NETWORK

The roadway network is the largest component of the City’s transportation system, designed to facilitate public
travel from one location in Murray to another. The City maintains approximately 146 miles of streets. The road
network is comprised of a hierarchy of roads whose functional classifications are defined by their usage and their
function. In general, the road network is separated into four main categories of streets: Freeways, Arterials,
Collectors, and Local Streets.

Freeways are designed to service long distance trips between cities and states, with limited interference.

Major Arterials are continuous streets that serve large traffic volumes and are designed to limit access to abutting
property via driveways, alleys and business entrances. Major arterials are planned to eliminate through traffic in
residential neighborhoods and adjacent school facilities.

Minor Arterials are continuous streets designed to provide direct connectivity between, but not through
neighborhoods. These streets are planned with the intent to eliminate through traffic in residential areas and
adjacent schools.



2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                                                   PAGE | 6-3
6 – TRANSPORTATION SYSTEMS


Collectors are continuous streets designed to collect traffic from local streets and distribute it to minor and major
arterials.

Local Streets are streets other than collectors or arterials that are designed to provide access to abutting
property.

Depending upon their trips, travelers typically use a combination of arterial, collector, and local streets to go from
one location to another. Each type of facility is designed to serve a specific function. Some provide access to
various land uses, while others offer different levels of mobility. Understanding the basic difference between
mobility and accessibility is critical in the process of formulating transportation goals and policies. The overall goal
is to maintain a balance between accessibility and mobility by providing multimodal transportation alternatives to
the end users. As illustrated in Figure 6.1, arterial facilities provide a considerably high level of mobility and very
limited access, whereas local streets provide a high level of access to abutting properties. Collectors, on the other
hand, provide a balance between mobility and access to land uses.

A detailed description of characteristics of the different functional classifications of the roadway network is
included in Table 1. The existing roadway classifications for Murray City are provided in Map 6.1




Figure 6.1. Relationship between Access and Mobility using the Functionally Classified Highway
System. Source: FHWA, 1992.




2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                                                       PAGE | 6-4
                                                                                               6 – TRANSPORTATION SYSTEMS


Table6.1. Classification Characteristics


                                               USE                                    Dimensions               Volume
 Type of Facility
                              Trip Length               Design             Lane Width        Number of   Average Daily Trips
                                  (miles)               Speed*                 (feet)          Lanes     (ADT) (in thousands)

Freeway                       > 5 miles                  > 65                    12            6~8               80

Major Arterial                1-2 miles                 45~55                    12            5~6             15~50

Minor Arterial                > 1 mile                  40~45                    12            3~5             10~25

Major Collector                  1 mile                 30~40                    12            2~5             3.5~10

Minor Collector                  1 mile                 25~35                 11~12            2~3             1.5~3.5

Local Street                  < 1 mile                  20~30                 10~12                2            < 1.5

* Design Speed refers to the design specifications and can differ from posted speed limit.




TRAFFIC VOLUMES

Overall, traffic volumes in Murray have not substantially increased on either arterials or collectors. Annual
Average Daily Traffic (AADT) data for the arterials and most of the major collectors was obtained from the Utah
Department of Transportation (UDOT). Table 2 provides the 2004 and 2013 recorded AADT as well as the
associated percentage growth for various roadway segments throughout the City.

TRAFFIC SIGNAL SYSTEM

Within Murray City’s boundary, there are currently a total of 69 operational traffic signals. Of these, 40 are owned
and maintained by UDOT. Murray owns the remaining 29 signals and they are maintained by Salt Lake County.
UDOT manages the operations of traffic signals in a number of jurisdictions throughout the state via their i2
Central System. This method allows the traffic signals to be remotely monitored and adjusted in real time.
Currently, UDOT maintains signal coordination on several arterials throughout the City, including State Street
(US-89), 900 East (SR-71), Van Winkle Expressway (SR-152), 4500 South (SR-266), and 5300 South (SR-173).

RAILROAD TRAFFIC

Several major railroad lines owned by Union Pacific Railroad and Utah Railroad carry freight and Amtrak
passenger trains through Murray. There is currently one commuter rail station operated by UTA with its station
located at Murray Central.




2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                                                             PAGE | 6-5
6 – TRANSPORTATION SYSTEMS


Map 6.1 Functional Classification of Roadways




2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO             PAGE | 6-6
                                                                  6 – TRANSPORTATION SYSTEMS


Table 6.2. Murray Roadway Segment Volumes and Growth


                        MURRAY ROADWAY SEGMENT VOLUMES AND GROWTH

       ROADWAY                             LIMITS                 2004     2013      % Change

           I-15                      4500 to 5300 South           188730   207560      1.11

           I-15                      5300 South to I-215          163433   179205      1.07

           I-215               State St. to Union Park (900E)     120715   115130      -0.51

       State Street                  4500 to 4800 South           30080    31240       0.43

        5300 South               700 West to I-15 Interchange     29360    32415       1.16

        4500 South                  300 West to Main St.          33505    39435       1.30

  Van Winkle Expressway              6100 to 6200 South           23470    25940       1.17

         900 East           Van Winkle Expressway to 5600 South   27815    24520       -1.32

        1300 East                     5600 to Vine St.            21535    17945       -1.85

         700 East                    4500 to 4800 South           27610    24230       -1.36

    Winchester Street             State St. to Fashion Blvd       23165    22765       -0.19

    Winchester Street               700 West to State St.         12285    9850        -2.20

        700 West                     5300 to 5900 South           10576    10545       -4.61

       Fashion Blvd             5900 South to Winchester St.      9983     10465       -5.29

       Murray Blvd                   4800 to 5300 South           10113    8290        -8.08

 Murray Parkway Avenue          Winchester St. to 5400 South       6795    8625        2.99

        Vine Street                  5300 to 5600 South           8360     13055       6.24

         300 West                    4500 to 4800 South            5190     3610       -3.38

        300 West                   4800 South to Vine St.         5105     4380        -1.58

        4800 South              Commerce Drive to State St.        8770    8960        0.24

       5300 South                   State St. to Vine St.         10500    9990        -0.54

       5600 South                 Fashion Blvd to Vine St.        7250     5870        -2.11

       5900 South                   300 West to State St.         11285    9252        -9.24

Source: UDOT Traffic Data




2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                                 PAGE | 6-7
6 – TRANSPORTATION SYSTEMS


TRANSIT SERVICE SYSTEM

Currently, Murray City is served by the UTA transit system through a number of bus routes and transit stations
including, the Murray Central, the Fashion Place West, and the Murray North stations. The bus route system
provides direct connectivity between the west and the east areas of the City to all of the transit stations along
three major arterials: 4500 South, 5300 South, and Winchester Street. Murray Central is a light rail and commuter
rail station, served by the TRAX and the FrontRunner that operate in Salt Lake County. The Fashion Place West is
a light rail station serviced by both the blue line and the red line that provides service in various locations
throughout the Salt Lake County area. The Murray North station has been in operation since 1999 in Murray and is
serviced by both the blue line and the red line. Map 6.2 illustrates UTA bus routes, light-rail, and commuter rail
stations throughout the City.

With the existing light rail, commuter rail, and bus system, Murray residents are given ample transit alternatives.
Mode choice data from the preceding American Community Survey and the Transportation Planning Product
show a decline in the use of transit for work in the last decade. Table 3 provides an illustration of mode choice of
work trips for Murray and the rest of the state in 2000 and 2006 to 2010.

Table 6.3. Mode Choice to Work


           Mode Choice                           20001            2006-20102        20001           2006-20102


                                                              Murray                            Utah


             Drove alone                         76.3%                 79.2%        75.5%               75.7%


          2-person Carpool                       9.4%                  8.9%         10.9%               9.3%


    3-or-more-person Carpool                     2.1%                  1.6%          3.2%               3.1%


         Public Transportation                   4.4%                  2.8%          2.2%               2.4%


                  Bike                           0.3%                  0.5%          0.5%               0.8%


                Walked                           2.4%                  2.8%          2.8%               2.8%


Taxi, Motorcycle and Other means                 0.4%                  1.1%          0.7%               1.1%


           Worked at Home                        4.7%                  3.1%          4.2%               4.8%

    1.    Obtained from the Transportation Planning Product
    2.    Obtained from the American Community Survey (ACS)




2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                                                     PAGE | 6-8
                                                                            kMAP 6.2 - TRANSIT ROUTES
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Bus Route #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 200




                                                                                                                              205
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 201




                                           500 W




                                                                                                                                                  209




                                                                                                                                                              213
                                                                                       k                                                                                                                         205
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       45




                                                                                       Main St
                                                                                                 4500 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 209
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 213




                                                                                             200
 47




                                                                  Front Runner South
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 220
                                                                                                     4800 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 307
                                                                                                              Vin
                                                                                                                  e   St                                                                                         313

                                                                             kk
                                                                             j                                                                                                                                   320
                                                    d
                                                Bl v
                                      rr   ay                                                                                                                                                                    45
                                   Mu                                                                                      5300 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 47
                              5400 S




                                                                                                 State St
      54
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 54
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 62
                                                          Main Line



                                                                                                                                             5600 S


                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TRAX Light Rail Node




                                                                                                                                                                                                                       313
                                                                                                                                                                                                            k




                                                                                                                                                                                    220
                           700 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Commuter Rail Node
                                                                                           201


                                                                                                                                                                                                            j
                                                                                                                                                                                                            k




                                                                                                                                                              1300 E
                                                                                                                                    5900 S                                                                       CommuterRailRoute
                                                             300 W




                                                                                                       6100 S                                                                                                    Blue Line (Sandy)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Main Line
                                                                                                                                                                       6400 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Red Line (Daybreak)

                                                                                                                                                      900 E
62




                                                                  k
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CityBoundary
                                                        Blue Line (Sandy)




                    r St
           Wincheste
                                          ak)




                                                                                                                                                                                                 307
                                       bre




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             µ

                                                                                                                                                                                     320
                                      y
                                   (Da
                                    e
                                Lin
                            Red




                                                                                                                                                                                0   0.25   0.5         1         1.5            2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Miles

                                                                  k
                      k
                                                                                 6 – TRANSPORTATION SYSTEMS


BIKEWAYS

Murray City has been proactively involved in providing safe, convenient, and enjoyable biking facilities for bikers
to safely navigate through the City. The types of bikeways include:

    •    Shared Use Path (Class I): Two-way bikeway located within right-of-way of a given facility, including a
         transitway. Bike paths located on such facilities are usually separated from motorized vehicular traffic.
         Shared Use Path may also be used by a variety of non-motorized users, including pedestrians, skaters,
         and wheelchair users.
    •    Bike Lane (Class II): A portion of a roadway facility that is designated through pavement markings for the
         use of bicycle.
    •    Signed Shared Roadway (Class III): A shared roadway which is designated by signing as a preferred route
         for bicycle travel.

Figure 6.2 shows a range of bikeway configurations organized from least protection to most protection for two
general categories: (1) Bikeways without Curbs and Sidewalks; (2) Bikeways with Curbs and Sidewalks. Map 6.3
shows both existing and desired/planned bikeways in Murray City.

Figure 6.2 Bikeway configurations




2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                                                    PAGE | 6-9
6 – TRANSPORTATION SYSTEMS


Map 6.3 Existing and Planned/Desired Bikeways




PEDESTRIAN WAYS

The pedestrian system includes facilities intended solely
for pedestrians and those designed to be shared between
pedestrians and bicyclists. Some facilities are oriented
toward basic circulation between destinations and others
are more recreational. Existing pedestrian facilities in
Murray include sidewalks on many streets, and a
proposed City Center District with ample opportunities
for safe and convenient walkable facilities.




2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                         PAGE | 6-10
                                                                                6 – TRANSPORTATION SYSTEMS


Figure 6.3 Street visually narrowed with paint




6.2 HOW DOES IT HELP US PLAN FOR THE FUTURE


GENERAL PLAN PRIORITIES

Transportation is an important component in the General Plan priorities that have been defined for Murray. In
focusing the City’s priorities in the core commercial area between Interstate 15 and State Street, transportation
facilities are critical to providing infrastructure to existing and planned large-scale commercial development.
Being a core business-oriented development area, it should be a continual priority for strategic transportation
improvements that include both roads and transit.

Concentrating commercial and office development in this core area brings opportunities for increased
concentrations of varying types of commercial development. For example, commercial development that follows
office space includes restaurants, retail establishments, and specialty commercial such as dry cleaners, drug
stores, etc. With these types of concentrated land uses, mass transit becomes an increasingly viable alternative
for commuters to the area. In this pursuit of increased office development, mass transit, including both commuter
rail and light rail transit, can be better utilized to offer commuters to the area an alternative form of
transportation.

While concentrating commercial development in the core area of Murray, limiting commercial development in or
near residential neighborhoods minimizes the need for increased traffic volume on residential streets. Collector
streets serving residential neighborhoods should not be prioritized for improvement over regional level priorities
such as those associated with the I-15 to State Street commercial development.




2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                                                  PAGE | 6-11
6 – TRANSPORTATION SYSTEMS


TRAFFIC CONGESTION

Like in many urban areas, traffic congestion has been identified as an area of concern along with the spillover
traffic from major streets into neighborhoods in Murray. The proposed construction of the Cottonwood Street
corridor, which is currently in partial completion, will offer commuters viable north/south alternatives to
Interstate-15 and State Street. This additional alternative should decrease the impacts of congestion-related
traffic on local streets in particular, State Street and 700 West/Murray Boulevard.

In the future, the automobile will remain an important way of travel. To maintain a balance between mobility and
accessibility, land use and transportation policies must recognize the work, live, and play aspects of daily life and
more efficient and accessible transportation options must be provided. To reduce both traffic congestion and the
impact on the built environment, appropriate land use decisions must be made that help reduce the length and
number of automobile trips. In addition, alternatives to the automobile that are efficient, accessible, and
comfortable, can challenge the reliance on the automobile and further help reduce congestion on our streets. In
order to further reduce peak period trips for purposes of improving air quality and traffic congestion, employers
should consider supporting and offering a range of incentive and alternatives to their employees.

NEIGHBORHOOD TRAFFIC

Concerns identified by the City related to neighborhood traffic included congestion on 5300 South east of State
Street. While Table 2 illustrated that traffic has decreased on 5300 South east of State Street in comparison to
other local streets, the street is reaching capacity for its present configuration. Murray residents have voiced
concerns that widening 5300 South east of State Street would only increase traffic through neighborhoods and
reduce their sense of community.

6.3 TRANSPORTATION SYSTEMS GOAL, OBJECTIVES & STRATEGIES


TRANSPORTATION SYSTEMS OVERALL GOAL

Provide an efficient and comprehensive multi-modal transportation system that effectively serves residents
and integrates with the regional transportation plan for the Wasatch Front.

TRANSPORTATION SYSTEMS OBJECTIVES & STRATEGIES

OBJECTIVE 1: PROVIDE SAFE AND EFFICIENT MOVEMENT OF TRAFFIC ON CITY STREETS WHILE
MAINTAINING THE INTEGRITY OF NEIGHBORHOODS.

         Strategy: Adopt a complete streets policy to be implemented on new and reconstructed streets where
         feasible. Prioritize a list of existing streets to redesign as complete streets.

         Strategy: Update Murray’s Transportation Plan to identify future transportation needs.

OBJECTIVE 2: PROMOTE THE USE OF ALTERNATIVE TRANSPORTATION SYSTEMS, INCLUDING MASS
TRANSIT, PEDESTRIAN, AND BIKE TRAVEL.

         Strategy: Where feasible, provide adequate sidewalks and bicycle facilities on new and reconstructed
         City streets.



2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                                                   PAGE | 6-12
                                                                                6 – TRANSPORTATION SYSTEMS


       Strategy: Identify impediments to transit use, such as lack of benches, shelters and posted schedules at
       bus stops, and prioritize addressing those impediments. Work to establish a partnership with UTA to
       implement improvements.

       Strategy: Develop an Active Transportation Plan and implement recommendations.

       Strategy: Maintain the design guidelines for streets and sidewalks in the city’s ordinance and ensure they
       stay relevant as the best mechanism for enhancing and elevating the pedestrian realm with wide
       sidewalks, street trees and furniture in the TOD, MCCD, and other redevelopment areas.

       Strategy: Designate a funding stream solely for the use of improving pedestrian and bicycle facilities.

       Strategy: Provide training for city officials, staff, and citizens on how to promote the use of alternative
       transportation systems.

OBJECTIVE 3: SUPPORT RESIDENTIAL TRAFFIC CALMING WHERE PROVEN EFFECTIVE AND COST EFFICIENT.

       Strategy: Identify neighborhoods where traffic operates beyond the target speed. Implement
       neighborhood traffic calming measures where needed.

OBJECTIVE 4: UTILIZE TRANSPORTATION CORRIDORS AS OPPORTUNITIES TO SHOWCASE THE IMAGE OF
MURRAY CITY THROUGH BEAUTIFICATION AND URBAN DESIGN.

       Strategy: Improve and maintain the aesthetic quality of the City’s streets through the use of streetscape
       enhancements, such as landscaping, street trees, and pavement treatments.

       Strategy: Maintain policies to address new billboards, signs and other similar visual clutter.

       Strategy: Ensure policies to require consistent street trees in new developments are enforced and create
       an implementation priority plan to add consistent street trees throughout the city.

       Strategy: Establish street design guidelines outlining requirements for street trees, sidewalk width
       and street furnishings.

       Strategy: Use tools such as Collector for ArcGIS to identify streets most in need of aesthetic
       improvements.

OBJECTIVE 5: OPTIMIZE THE EXISTING TRANSPORTATION NETWORK TO EFFECTIVELY MEET CURRENT
AND FUTURE NEEDS WITHOUT COMPROMISING QUALITY OF LIFE.

       Strategy: Use LOS (Level of Service) information to understand traffic flow needs, but consider adjacent
       land uses and neighborhood integrity before making changes.

OBJECTIVE 6: ENHANCE CONNECTIVITY BETWEEN CITY DESTINATIONS, NEIGHBORHOODS, TRANSIT
STATIONS, AND OPEN SPACES.

       Strategy: Work to provide East-West pedestrian connections across State Street, especially between the
       Intermountain Medical Center campus and its surroundings to promote a community of healing
       atmosphere.




2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                                                  PAGE | 6-13
6 – TRANSPORTATION SYSTEMS


      Strategy: Identify locations with impediments to bicycle and pedestrians and review the National
      Association of City Transportation Officials (NATCO) Phases of Transformation for interim design
      considerations. Evaluate full roadway reconstruction projects for bicycle and pedestrian facilities and
      implement where feasible.

      Strategy: Where feasible, provide bicycle and pedestrian facilities on new roadway and roadway
      reconstruction projects.

      Strategy: Perform a Transportation Network Analysis between major destinations to identify where
      connectivity is lacking.

OBJECTIVE 7: PROMOTE TRANSIT ORIENTED DEVELOPMENT AND CONNECTIVITY TO TRANSIT STATION
AREAS.

      Strategy: Review zoning to ensure that appropriate designations are supporting transit oriented
      development and transit supportive neighborhoods.

      Strategy: Develop an Active Transportation Plan and implement as recommended.

OBJECTIVE 8: ENSURE TRANSPORTATION/MOBILITY DECISIONS ARE MADE WITH RESPECT TO EXISTING
AND FUTURE ADJACENT LAND USES.

      Strategy: Identify corridors for future corridor concept planning development.

      Strategy: Work with UDOT to develop detailed context-sensitive corridor concept plans to guide future
      improvements on UDOT managed roadways.

OBJECTIVE 9: SUPPORT REGIONAL COOPERATION AND COORDINATION IN REGARD TO ALL TYPES OF
TRANSPORTATION SYSTEMS AND MODES.

      Strategy: Continue to appoint representatives of the City to regularly attend and participate in
      Cooperative County Plan (Plan-TAC) meetings and other regional transportation planning meetings to
      share transportation plans. Have these representatives report back to the city on discussions.




2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                                               PAGE | 6-14
                                                                                  7 – ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT




CHAPTER 7 - ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT

The Economic Development chapter of the Murray General Plan is intended
to provide direction for the City to maintain sustainable economic growth
while preserving its historic character, natural environment and suburban
developments. A stable and diverse economy supporting high-quality job
growth plays a significant role in maintaining the vitality and quality of life
within a community. A healthy tax base is essential to providing schools,
parks, infrastructure, public safety, and other public facilities and services.

The current conditions and economic projections are used as the basis for this
section, which also includes goals and strategies to improve the economic
well-being of residents, the local economy and the region as a whole.




2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                                       Page | 7-1
7 – ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT


ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT GOAL AND SUPPORTING OBJECTIVES




                                      Revitalize downtown
                                     east and west of State
                                     Street to support a city
                                       cultural ,civic, and
                                         medical center.



               Enhance the                                      Create “one-of-a-kind”
        surroundings of existing                                  neighborhood retail
            medical industry                                     nodes with an identity
          centers (such as IMC.                                      and make them
             TOSH, and the                                       accessible to the local
           University of Utah                                   neighborhood via urban
          clinics) to promote a                                  design and form (e.g.
        community of healing in                                  9th & 9th; 15th & 15th in
                 Murray.                                             Salt Lake City).


                                   GOAL: Ensure a resilient
                                    economy, prepared to
                                     handle future change
                                   through the support of a
                                    strong and diverse tax
                                       base for the city.


              Increase the                                      Maintain supremacy as
          sustainability of the                                  the regional retail hub
        City’s tax base through                                 of Salt Lake County by
            increased office                                       supporting what is
        property values and by                                      there rather than
          creating additional                                      adding competing
         employment centers.                                    retail/commercial uses.



                                        Create economic
                                     districts/nodes that are
                                        supported by and
                                         geared towards
                                     pedestrian and bicycle
                                          infrastructure.




2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                     Page | 7-2
                                                                                      7 – ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT



7.1 WHAT WE KNOW


EMPLOYMENT AND WAGES

Murray has an average of 3,016 firms, with an average of 44,791 individuals employed by these firms. Murray’s
jobs-per-capita ratio is high compared to surrounding areas. With a jobs-per-capita ratio of 0.92, there is almost 1
job for every resident in the City. Only South Salt Lake and Salt Lake City have higher jobs per capita in Salt Lake
County compared to Murray.

The average monthly wage in Murray of $3,691 is eight percent higher compared to the State’s average monthly
wage of $3,422, but four percent lower compared to Salt Lake County’s average monthly wage of $3,852.
Murray’s average monthly wage is higher than the majority of surrounding areas with 64 percent of the
surrounding areas having a lower monthly wage and 36 percent having a higher monthly wage.

Employment in Murray grew by 2,194 jobs, or 5 percent, from 2009 to 2013. Intermountain Medical Center (IMC)
located on Cottonwood Street is the largest employer in the City, and The Orthopedic Specialty Hospital (TOSH)
is the second largest employer. IMC falls into the 5000-6999 employment range, while TOSH is in the 500-999
range.

EMPLOYMENT IN THE REGION

Murray City had 16 percent of the total employment in the regional area in 2013. This is down from 17 percent in
2009. (See Figure 7.1) In addition to Murray, Sandy, South Salt Lake, and West Valley City also dropped their
share of total employment (one percent, two percent, and three percent, respectively). These drops in
employment share were acquired by both Cottonwood Heights and Holladay, which saw increases in their total
share of the employment in the area (5 percent and 2 percent increases, respectively.)

Figure 7.1: Employment Market Share (2009-2013)



     30%

     25%

     20%

     15%

     10%

       5%

       0%
             Cottonwood   Holladay    Midvale      Murray      Sandy     South Salt    Taylorsville      West    West Valley
              Heights                                                      Lake                         Jordan
        2009     2%          1%         5%          17%        16%         14%             7%            11%        26%
        2013     7%          3%         5%          16%        15%         12%             7%            11%        23%




2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                                                   Page | 7-3
7 – ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT


Source: Utah Department of Workforce Services; ZBPF




During the same period, the average monthly wage in Murray increased by 10 percent, from $3,359 to $3,691, an
absolute change of $332. This is slightly above average for the County, which averaged an increase of $301
between 2009 and 2013.

EMPLOYMENT PROJECTIONS

Employment in Salt Lake County and Murray City is projected to increase through 2060. According to the
Governor’s Office of Management & Budget (GOMB), total employment in Murray is projected to reach 50,818 in
                                     1
2020 and continue to 62,338 by 2040.

7.2 HOW DOES THIS HELP US PLAN FOR THE FUTURE?

Murray has the second highest General Fund revenues per capita compared to the neighboring cities of South Salt
Lake, West Valley, Midvale, Sandy, Cottonwood Heights, Holladay, West Jordan, and Taylorsville. Although the
City has a large sales tax base, due to the regional shopping nature of Murray, property tax revenues are below
average for comparison communities. Murray is ranked 5 of 8 for Property Tax Revenues per Capita of the
comparison cities. Pursuing Class A office space in Murray will increase the property tax base and ultimately
property tax revenues. Furthermore, the redevelopment of commercial sites throughout Murray can also help to
increase the economic stability of the City through higher property values.

A sales leakage analysis can identify economic development opportunities for a community by evaluating the
total purchases made by residents inside and outside the community. A sales leakage analysis first identifies sales
within the State of Utah for each major NAICS code category and then calculates the average sales per capita in
each NAICS category. Per capita sales in Murray are compared to average per capita sales statewide in order to
estimate what portion of resident purchases are being made within City boundaries and what purchases are being
made by residents outside of the City.

The percent of purchases being made within a City’s boundary is the capture rate. Therefore, a capture rate less
than 100 percent indicates that residents are leaving the City to purchase goods elsewhere and may represent an
opportunity for the City to recapture some of these lost sales. A capture rate of over 100 percent indicates that
residents from surrounding areas are coming into the City to purchase goods and services and represents areas of
strength on which the City can build. Corresponding sales leakage amounts show the amount of lost sales
annually when the capture rate is less than 100 percent. A positive sales leakage amount, which corresponds to a
capture rate above 100 percent, indicates the City is capturing more than its proportionate share of sales
compared to other communities in the State.




1
 Projections based on the average annual growth rate projected by the GOMB and current employment counts by the Utah
Department of Workforce Services. Projections assume that Murray’s portion of total County employment (7% average
between 2007 and 2013) remains consistent.


2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                                             Page | 7-4
                                                                                  7 – ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT




                                      Percent of City Sales


                                                                         Motor Vehicle and Parts Dealers


                                                                         General Merchandise Stores


                                                                         Clothing and Clothing Accessories
                                                                         Stores
                                                                         Food Services and Drinking Places


                                                                         Building Material and Garden
                                                                         Equipment and Supplies Dealers
                                                                         Furniture and Home Furnishings
                                                                         Stores
                                                                         Food and Beverage Stores


                                                                         Electronics and Appliance Stores


                                                                         Miscellaneous Store Retailers


                                                                         Sporting Goods, Hobby, Book,
                                                                         and Music Stores
                                                                         Health and Personal Care Stores


                                                                         Gasoline Stations


                                                                         Performing Arts, Spectator
                                                                         Sports, and Related Industries
                                                                         Nonstore Retailers


                                                                         Accommodation




Figure 7.2: City Sales Distribution


Murray City has an overall capture rate of 291 percent, which represents approximately $944,097,603 in “gained”
sales of goods and services purchased by residents outside of the City. The City has a positive sales leakage in the
majority of categories, indicating diversification of retail within the City.



2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                                            Page | 7-5
7 – ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT


Leakage is also reflected in the percent of retail market share. Murray’s portion of the retail market share is large
compared to other communities. When compared to other communities, Murray makes up only 8.68 percent of
the population but has 17.28 percent of the market share. This is a reflection of the retail pull that Murray has
within the area. Across all major sectors, Murray’s market share increased from 18.9 to 19.6 from 2009 to 2013.

                                                                   Map 7.1: Buying Power Radii of Major Retail Centers

Retailers consider population and
employment levels to determine
whether a new outlet would be
sustainable at a given site. Using
population and employment
projections developed by Wasatch
Front Regional Council (WFRC) in
Traffic Analysis Zones (TAZ), the
projected growth in employment and
population within one, three and five-
mile radii of Fashion Place Mall were
analyzed and compared to other
competitive retail sites in the County.
The Buying Power Radii map shows
these retail sites using the distance of
these radii. This is a comparison for
Fashion Place Mall only and not the
buying power of the entire city.

Murray’s buying power based on
population is greater than
competitive sites. Fashion Place has
approximately 394,818 persons within
a 5-mile radius, with 464,923 persons
by 2040. The great buying power is
likely due to Murray’s central location
in the Salt Lake Valley. The area with
the greatest projected growth is
Jordan Landing, with 109,240 more
persons by 2040.

The buying power based on
employment in Murray is above
average for the area, with 240,185
persons within 5 miles. A large
employment base increases daytime
eating and shopping, which leads to
increased sales tax revenues.




2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                                             Page | 7-6
                                                                                     7 – ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT



DEVELOPMENT OPPORTUNITIES


NEW DEVELOPMENT

Murray City has relatively little vacant land available for development. According to the Salt Lake County
Assessor’s Office, of the 18,188 parcels in the City, 436 are listed as vacant, with a total vacant area of 271 acres.
The average acreage of vacant parcels is .6 acres, while the largest vacant parcel is 25 acres, and is located near
Walden and Cottonwood Grove Parks by the Jordan River Parkway.

Map 7.2: Vacant Land




The majority of vacant land is outside of the twelve commercial districts (identified for use in the economic
analysis and shown on Map 7.2), with approximately 79 acres of vacant land within a commercial district. Districts
A, B, C, and D have the greatest amount of vacant land, with a total of 54 acres.

REDEVELOPMENT

Because very little vacant space is available in the economic districts, redevelopment of parcels will be key to
economic growth in Murray City in the future. Potential parcels for redevelopment are those that have low
improvement values, both on a parcel and per acre basis.

Map 7.3 shows commercial parcels in Murray and their improvement value per acre. Some of the highest
improvement values are located at the major commercial districts, including 5300 South State Street and Fashion
Place Mall.


2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                                               Page | 7-7
7 – ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT




Map 7.3 Commercial Parcels – Improvement Value per Acre




COMMERCIAL NODE POTENTIAL

Several areas within Murray City have potential for redevelopment to occur. These locations would be based on
low improvement values and available vacant land, as well as transportation access and their general location.
Redevelopment at these sites would likely fall under one of three categories: city center/arts district,
neighborhood nodes, or commercial office.

COMMERCIAL OFFICE SPACE

The City currently has no Class A office space. Collectively, suburban Salt Lake County (7,432,238) captures 59.8%
percent of the Class A office space in the entire County (12,437,164). On the other hand, Murray comprises 4.5
percent of the total population in Salt Lake County and 7.2 percent of total employment in the County.
Furthermore, Murray has excellent access to I-15 and I-215, and regional transit stations, making Murray a great
location for Class A office space. There are preliminary plans underway to redevelop the northwest corner of 5300
South and I-15 into a six-building Class A office complex, which would help fill this void in Murray.

As mentioned previously, job growth in Murray within the Professional & Business industry is expected to
increase. Growth in this sector will demand additional office space to accommodate these additional employees.
Table 7.2 shows the amount of additional office space created per decade as well as per year, based on estimated
employment growth in this sector and an average of 200 square feet of office space per employee.




2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                                          Page | 7-8
                                                                                 7 – ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT




Table 7.1 Current Office Space in Murray City

                  Class                          Total Sq Ft                 Vacant Sq Ft               % Vacant


                Class A                                   0                             0                    0.0%


                Class B                           1,820,311                      220,432                   12.1%


                Class C                            939,838                       127,901                   13.6%


                   Total                          2,760,149                      348,333                   12.6%


Source: Commerce CRG; ZBPF

Table 7.2: Office Sq Ft Created by Employment Growth in Murray

Professional and Business Services          2013-2020     2020-2030       2030-2040    2040-2050      2050-2060


Jobs Created per Decade                           1,545          1,806         1,704          1,845         1,996


Office Space Created per Decade                 309,081        361,125       340,887        369,009       399,168


Jobs Created Annually                              221             181          170            185            200


Office Space Created Annually                    44,154          36,113       34,089         36,901        39,917



These employment projections are based on the current percent of total employment within Salt Lake County
and could change as development occurs in Murray. For example, Holladay currently has 7 percent of all
Professional & Business Services employees in the County. If additional office space were created in Murray, the
City’s percent of total employment will likely increase, which will also increase the projected amount of office
space created.

Over the past decade, office development and absorption in Salt Lake County has been markedly stronger in
suburban areas than in other areas of the County. In fact, there was decline and negative absorption outside of
suburban areas over the past three years; yet, during that same time period the suburbs absorbed an average of
550,731 square feet annually. This bodes well for Murray which is an excellent location for the development of
Class A office space.




2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                                          Page | 7-9
7 – ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT



7.3 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT GOAL, OBJECTIVES, & STRATEGIES


ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT OVERALL GOAL

Ensure a resilient economy, prepared to handle future change through the support of a strong and diverse
tax base for the city.

ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES & STRATEGIES

OBJECTIVE 1: REVITALIZE DOWNTOWN EAST AND WEST OF STATE STREET TO SUPPORT A CITY
CULTURAL, CIVIC, AND MEDICAL CENTER.

        Strategy: Encourage redevelopment of this area, focusing on parcels with low improvement values per
        acre.

        Strategy: Pursue businesses, services, and amenities for this area that support the already-existing arts
        industry and the Intermountain Medical Center, including arts and entertainment, restaurants, and small-
        scale retail.

        Strategy: Create a community of healing atmosphere allowing patients at the Intermountain Medical
        Center to engage with the surrounding area. The Mayo Clinic in Rochester, MN can serve as a precedent
        for what Murray can achieve along State Street in this regard.

OBJECTIVE 2: CREATE “ONE-OF-A-KIND” NEIGHBORHOOD RETAIL NODES WITH AN IDENTITY AND MAKE
THEM ACCESSIBLE TO THE LOCAL NEIGHBORHOOD VIA URBAN DESIGN AND FORM (E.G. 9TH & 9TH; 15TH
    TH
& 15 IN SALT LAKE CITY).

        Strategy: Improve the visual and physical appearance of existing and future economic nodes.

        Strategy: Focus less on sales tax generation and more on beautification and creating an accessible
        environment.

        Strategy: Follow urban design/urban form best practices.

        Strategy: Develop and implement high quality architectural and site design standards for neighborhood
        nodes, multi-family residential, commercial, and mixed-use developments.

        Strategy: Add outdoor amenities (e.g. gathering places such as plazas and nodes; street furniture such as
        benches, bike racks, and pedestrian-scale lighting) near existing retail destinations.

        Strategy: Make existing retail destinations attractive to pedestrians for a park-once-visit-multiple-
        destinations experience.




2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                                        Page | 7-10
                                                                                 7 – ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT


OBJECTIVE 3: MAINTAIN SUPREMACY AS THE REGIONAL RETAIL HUB OF SALT LAKE COUNTY BY
SUPPORTING EXISTING BUSINESSES AND NOT UNDERMINING CURRENT RETAIL BY ADDING MORE,
COMPETING RETAIL/COMMERCIAL USES THAT WILL RESULT IN A TRANSFER OF CUSTOMERS FROM ONE
STORE TO ANOTHER SIMILAR STORE RATHER THAN ADDING NEW CUSTOMERS.

       Strategy: Pursue “one-of-a-kind” destinations (e.g. the Planetarium) arts, entertainment, and cultural
       venues, and/or highly popular retail outlets (e.g. Cabela’s), that will set Murray apart and add to the City’s
       image as a retail destination, as well as create additional employment opportunities in the City.

       Strategy: Create office and employment centers that will strengthen the retail base by bringing in a
       larger daytime population.

OBJECTIVE 4: CREATE ECONOMIC DISTRICTS/NODES THAT ARE SUPPORTED BY AND GEARED TOWARDS
PEDESTRIAN AND BICYCLE INFRASTRUCTURE.

       Strategy: Encourage the redevelopment of key economic districts into more walkable areas by bringing
       store-fronts closer to the street with parking behind. Economic districts to target include 900 East
       shopping centers. (See Initiative #5)

       Strategy: Adopt sidewalk width and other sidewalk design criteria as recommended in the NATCO
       Urban Street Design Guide.

       Strategy: Adopt pedestrian circulation standards for developments and develop a checklist. Require new
       developments to submit a Pedestrian Plan to show pedestrian circulation and accesses within and to the
       site.

OBJECTIVE 5: INCREASE THE SUSTAINABILITY OF THE CITY’S TAX BASE THROUGH INCREASED OFFICE
PROPERTY VALUES AND BY CREATING ADDITIONAL EMPLOYMENT CENTERS.

       Strategy: Pursue Class A office space at key sites, including along I-15 at 5300 South and 4500 South.

       Strategy: Provide a variety of incentives, flexibility, density, etc., for the development of Class A office
       space.

       Strategy: Allow the market to drive height of Class A office space.

       Strategy: Encourage office at TOD areas.

       Strategy: Modify or create a new office zone that allows the type of Class A office space the city desires.
       The current General Office zone is too restrictive to attract Class A office space.

       Strategy: Pursue the redevelopment of key economic districts, including along State Street, 4500 South,
       700 East, and at Neighborhood Nodes.




2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                                           Page | 7-11
7 – ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT


OBJECTIVE 6: ENHANCE THE SURROUNDINGS OF EXISTING MEDICAL INDUSTRY CENTERS (SUCH AS IMC.
TOSH, AND THE UNIVERSITY OF UTAH CLINICS) TO PROMOTE A COMMUNITY OF HEALING IN MURRAY.

       Strategy: Target development in and around these areas with entertainment, amenities, such as open
       spaces and other services that support those using the medical centers.

       Strategy: Recruit technology-related businesses related to the medical industry.

       Strategy: Strengthen connections to Downtown Murray and continue to enhance this area with
       amenities that may serve the medical centers.

OBJECTIVE 7: ENHANCE EXISTING KEY INDUSTRY CENTERS.

       Strategy: Recruit technology-related industries, especially those that support the existing medical
       industry.

       Strategy: Encourage the redevelopment of the economic district, focusing on attracting businesses in
       the arts and entertainment industry as well as business types to support this niche, including restaurants
       and small-scale retail.




2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                                         Page | 7-12
CHAPTER 8 - NEIGHBORHOODS & HOUSING

This chapter generally covers what we know
and how to plan for the future of Murray’s
residential neighborhoods and housing. A
specific chapter on Moderate Income
Housing follows (Chapter 9). Murray’s
residential areas are not clearly delineated by
neighborhood boundaries, with the
exception of the well-established residential
historic districts (Downtown Residential
Historic District and Hillside Historic District).
Some areas are identified by neighborhood
landmarks or key transportation corridors
(e.g. Grant Park, Box Elder Street, and Vine
Street). By contrast, over 80 subdivisions are
recorded within Murray City boundaries, each
with an identified name. Some are just a
couple lots while others are quite expansive
and lend their name to the general
neighborhood.




2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                  PAGE | 8-1
NEIGHBORHOODS & HOUSING GOAL AND SUPPORTING OBJECTIVES




                                Preserve and
                              stabilize current
                              neighborhoods.




                              GOAL: Provide a
                             diversity of housing
                             through a range of
                           types and development
                           patterns to expand the
                             options available to
                             existing and future
                                  residents.
        Encourage                                        Preserve aging
     housing options                                      housing stock
      for a variety of                                       through
     age, family size                                    restoration and
       and financial                                      rehabilitation
           levels.                                           efforts.




2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                           PAGE | 8-2
8.1 WHAT WE KNOW


KEY POINTS

Murray currently has nearly 15,000 residential parcels listed with the Salt Lake County Assessor’s Office, with over
19,000 total housing units. Over 50 percent of those units are categorized as single-family residences, with 21.7
categorized as apartment units.

Key points regarding the current housing supply in Murray include:

    •    2013 American Community Survey (ACS) data estimates a 66 percent home ownership rate for Murray.
         This is slightly below the County average, at 67 percent, and the State average, at 70 percent. Murray has
         a higher tenure rate than Salt Lake City, Midvale, and South Salt Lake, but is lower than Sandy, West
         Jordan, Holladay, Taylorsville, and Cottonwood Heights.
    •    The ACS estimates that a 5.4 percent vacancy rate for housing units in Murray. This is below the average
         for the County (6.1%) and the State (10.3%).
    •    Murray has approximately 4,203 apartment units in multiple complexes of various sizes. Rental rates
         range between $614 and $1,399, and are further discussed in Chapter 9, Moderate Income Housing.

HOUSING TYPES

Murray is dominated by single-family
homes and condos, with large
apartment complexes rounding out
the primary housing type. As can be
seen on Graph 8.1, there is a dearth of
‘missing middle’ housing types –
options between the apartment
complexes and single-family homes.




2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                                             PAGE | 8-3
Graph 8.1: Housing Types Distribution



                                        Percent of Total Units
             60.00%

             50.00%

             40.00%

             30.00%

             20.00%

             10.00%

               0.00%




                                                    Percent of Total Units




HOUSING CONDITIONS

Homes in Murray are on average older than other homes in
Salt Lake County, with approximately 19 percent of homes
built in the last 20 years, compared to 33 percent for the
County. However, Murray and the County both have 32
percent of the homes that are 50 years old or older.1 Most
homes in Murray were built between 1970 and 1979.




1
    Buildings older than 50 years are eligible for “historic” status

2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                          PAGE | 8-4
Graph 8.2: Housing Built by Decade



                          Percentage of Homes Built by Decade
 35%

 30%

 25%

 20%
                                                                                    Salt Lake County
 15%
                                                                                    Murray
 10%

   5%

   0%
         1939 or 1940 to 1950 to 1960 to 1970 to 1980 to 1990 to 2000 to 2010 or
          earlier 1949    1959    1969    1979    1989    1999    2009    later


Table 8.1: Residential Year Built


                     Year Structure Built            Salt Lake County                           Murray

                           2010 or later                        0.9%                             0.1%

                           2000 to 2009                        16.3%                             8.0%

                           1990 to 1999                        15.9%                            10.4%

                           1980 to 1989                        14.0%                            17.3%

                           1970 to 1979                        20.9%                            32.3%

                           1960 to 1969                         9.1%                            12.9%

                           1950 to 1959                         9.8%                            11.3%

                           1940 to 1949                         4.2%                             4.3%

                          1939 or earlier                       8.9%                             3.4%

Source: ACS (2013)




2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                                PAGE | 8-5
Map 8.1: Year Built by Decade




Building permit data from the Bureau of Economic and Business Research at the University of Utah shows that
Murray makes up a very small portion of residential building permits in Salt Lake County. From 2004 to 2013,
Murray averaged 74 residential building permits per year, or 1.6 percent of all residential building permits in Salt
Lake County.

The majority of homes in Murray are of average grade and condition, according to the Salt Lake County
                    2
Assessor’s Office. The distribution of grade and condition of homes are shown in Maps 8.2 and 8.3.




2
    Grades and conditions are not kept for multi-family dwellings, including apartments and condos.

2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                                             PAGE | 8-6
Map 8.2: Overall Grade of Residential




Map 8.3: Overall Condition of Residential




2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO         PAGE | 8-7
HOUSING VALUE

According to the Assessor’s Office, the median home value in Murray is $200,300. This is below the ACS estimate
of $227,400; however, the ACS estimate only includes owner occupied units. According to the ACS, the median
home value in Salt Lake County is $212,800.

Table 8.2: Median Home Value, Murray City


                                                                          Type                     Median Value


                                                                   Condo Units                         $135,400


                                                                        Duplex                         $244,900


                                             Other Multi-Family Residence (MFR)                        $238,400


                                                                           PUD                         $209,150


                                                  Single-Family Residence (SFR)                        $213,000


                                                                 Overall Median                        $200,300


                                                           Median - ACS (2013)                         $227,400




2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                                        PAGE | 8-8
Map 8.4: Market Value by Parcel




Average sale prices in Murray of single-family homes indicate a slight decrease in home values. Furthermore,
Murray is below average compared to other communities. Regardless of decreasing sale prices, it will be
important to monitor that affordability keeps pace with population growth and if interest rates rise.

8.2 HOW IT WILL HELP US PLAN FOR THE FUTURE


FUTURE HOUSING SUPPLY

PROJECTIONS

The population in Murray City is projected to increase from 46,746 in 2010 to 67,668 by 2040, based on
projections from the Governor’s Office of Management and Budget. Projections indicate an additional 17,543
                                                                                        3
people between 2015 and 2040. These additional people will require housing in Murray. Based on an average of
                                       4
2.54 persons per household in Murray, about 6,900 additional households would be created between 2015 and
2040, or an average of 276 households per year. Determinations will need to be made on how to best
accommodate this growth if it occurs.




3
    Assumes a 2015 population of 50,125 (GOMB, ZBPF)
4
    ACS 5-year average (2009-2013)

2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                                           PAGE | 8-9
Table 8.3: Population Projections


                                              Census        Estimated       Projection      Projection      Projection
                                    City
                                                 2010            2015            2020            2030            2040


                 Cottonwood Heights            33,433                          37,336          38,738          39,321


                             Holladay          26,472                          33,240          34,834          35,883


                              Midvale          27,964                          33,010          41,207          50,464


                               Murray          46,746          50,125          53,748          61,798          67,668


                        Salt Lake City        186,440                         210,592         227,824         229,985


                                Sandy          87,461                          97,826         102,107         104,993


                      South Salt Lake          23,617                          26,845          29,693          31,287

Source: Governor’s Office of Management and Budget; ZBPF




MURRAY HOUSING PERMITS

As mentioned previously, Murray makes up a small portion of the total residential building permits in the County.
Of the building permits issued in Murray, the majority have been for single-family units. Between 2004 and 2013,
32 percent of building permits in Murray were issued for multi-family units, with 104 multi-family units issued
between 2009 and 2013.

Graph 8.3 shows the number of residential building permits issued per year between 2004 and 2013. Construction
decreased significantly during the recession of 2009 and 2010, and has not returned to the pre-recession levels.

In addition to an increase in building permits issued, there are additional housing units in the pipeline of which the
City is aware. Table 8.4 lists these developments.




2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                                             PAGE | 8-10
Graph 8.3: Building Permits 2004-2013


    140


    120
              0                          0

    100                     68
                                                  58
     80


     60                                 115
             114
                                                                                                                           16
     40
                            68                    65                                                           50
                                                              3           23            0            15
     20                                                                                                                   40
                                                             27                      29
                                                                          16                         22
       0
                                                                                                                8
             2004           2005       2006      2007       2008         2009       2010         2011         2012        2013

                                                    Multi-Family        Single-Family




Table 8.4: Housing Developments in Pipeline


                   Name                             Type                                    Street                       Total Units


                                                                        5059 S Commerce Drive
       Murray Crossing             Apartments/Mixed Use 5                                                                        285
                                                                           248 West Vine Street


                                                                                                             Approved for 175; is a
       Metro @ Fireclay                       Apartments    57, 61 & 65 West Fireclay Avenue              phase 2 application which
                                                                                                                  will double this #


          Murray Bluffs
    Subdivision – Phase            Single Family Detached         6320 South Murray Bluffs Drive                                  17
                      3


       Cottages on Vine            Single Family Detached                   520 East Vine Street                                  11


                    Total                                                                                                        449




5
    Includes 15,485 sq ft of commercial tenant space

2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                                                            PAGE | 8-11
LIFECYCLE HOUSING


It is important to ensure housing
suitable for different stages of life,            Figure 7.3: Life-Cycle Housing
                                             Source: Salt Lake County Cooperative Plan
such as units for singles and young
couples, townhomes for retirees, as
well as opportunities for senior citizen
housing and long-term care/assisted
living facilities. Such an approach
creates opportunities for people to live
and grow in the same community. This
has been identified as an important
value for Murray residents, many of
whom are life-long residents and have
been in Murray for many generations.
It also enables young couples, families,
and the elderly to live near relatives.

Murray has a wide range of housing
options for different demographics.
Murray has two assisted living facilities
for a total of 143 units. The City is also
home to several large care centers,
suggesting that aging needs are well
met in the City. There are also a
significant number of apartment,
duplex and condo units in the City,
suggesting that there is housing stock
for entry-level households.




2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                           PAGE | 8-12
Table 8.5: Assisted Living Facilities in Murray

                                                      Name                                        Number of Units


                                       Legacy Retirement Inn                                                   28


                                              Olympus Ranch                                                   115




The 2013 ACS data shows that 4,500 of 18,611 householders, or 24 percent, are at least 65 years old, and this
percentage is increasing. Townhomes in the community can help independent retirees live in the City without the
maintenance needs of a detached house.

Table 8.6: Householders by Age Group

                                    Name                       Number of Householders        % of All Householders


                                Under 25                                        1,112                          6%


                                  25 to 44                                      6,318                        34%


                                  45 to 64                                      6,681                        36%


                                     65+                                        4,500                        24%

Source: ACS 2013

2013 ACS data shows that 1,112 of 18,611 householders are under the age of 25 – only about 6 percent of all
households. Development at the Fireclay project is on the right track to cater to this group. Millennials see
socially-conscious shopping and living as highly desirable. This generation is also highly social and often seeks
semi-urban, mixed-use development. Since this demographic is generally value-conscious, developments like the
Fireclay site that matches modern aesthetics, but at a discount compared to more urban areas, will be a draw.




2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                                           PAGE | 8-13
8.3 NEIGHBORHOODS & HOUSING GOAL, OBJECTIVES, & STRATEGIES


NEIGHBORHOODS & HOUSING OVERALL GOAL

Provide a diversity of housing through a range of types and development patterns to expand the options
available to existing and future residents.

NEIGHBORHOODS & HOUSING OBJECTIVES & STRATEGIES

OBJECTIVE 1: PRESERVE AND STABILIZE CURRENT NEIGHBORHOODS.

        Strategy: Protect the character and integrity of residential neighborhoods through landscape buffers,
        use, and visual buffer transitions.

        Strategy: Continue detailed landscape buffer requirements to commercial and institutional zoning
        codes.

        Strategy: Implement transition housing types that would integrate well with surrounding single-family
        dwellings and create a physical and visual transition from commercial developments.

        Strategy: Support residential infill projects of a compatible scale and form.

OBJECTIVE 2: PRESERVE AGING HOUSING STOCK THROUGH RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION
EFFORTS.

        Strategy: Provide information to homeowners on available grants, loans and other programs to assist in
        restoration and rehabilitation efforts.

        Strategy: Continue to work with NeighborWorks Salt Lake on housing rehabilitation and infill projects.

OBJECTIVE 3: ENCOURAGE HOUSING OPTIONS FOR A VARIETY OF AGE, FAMILY SIZE AND FINANCIAL
LEVELS.

        Strategy: Support a range of housing types, including townhomes, row-homes, and duplexes, which
        appeal to younger and older individuals as well as a variety of population demographics.

        Strategy: Promote the construction of smaller-scaled residential projects that are integrated with
        current and future employment, retail, and cultural areas.

        Strategy: Implement transition housing types that would integrate well with surrounding single-family
        dwellings and create a physical and visual transition from commercial developments.

        Strategy: Review zoning ordinances and make modifications where necessary to allowable housing
        types, lot size, setbacks and other factors that limit types of housing in a zone.

        Strategy: Continue to support ADUs (Accessory Dwelling Units) in all single-family residential zones and
        allow ADUs for single-family homes located in multi-family zones.




2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                                         PAGE | 8-14
                                                                           9 – MODERATE INCOME HOUSING



CHAPTER 9 - MODERATE INCOME HOUSING

Utah State Code (Section 10-9a-403)
requires municipalities to include a plan
for moderate-income housing as part of a
general plan. It outlines a responsibility of
a City to facilitate a “reasonable
opportunity” for those households with
moderate income to live within the City.
This chapter meets the requirements of a
Moderate Income Housing Plan for
Murray.

Moderate-income housing is defined by
the U.S. Department of Housing and
Urban Development (HUD) as “housing
occupied or reserved for occupancy by
households with a gross household income equal to or less than 80 percent of the median gross income for
households of the same size in the county in which the City is located.” This study uses Area Median Income (AMI)
in Salt Lake County as determined by HUD and average household size to determine moderate income thresholds
for an average household.

MODERATE INCOME HOUSING GOAL AND SUPPORTING STRATEGIES



                                                Provide a diversity of
                                                                                              Demonstrate
                                                  housing through a                        investment in the
                                                  range of types and                        rehabilitation or
      Develop and adopt
     station area plans in
                                                    development                                expansion of
       accordance with                            patterns to expand                      infrastructure that
        State Statute                           the moderate income                           facilitates the
     Section 10-9a-403.1.                          housing options                           construction of
                                                 available to existing                    moderate-income
                                                 and future residents.                           housing.



          Implement a
      mortgage assistance
           program for
       employees of the                              Amend land use                       Create or allow for,
        municipality, an                           regulations to allow                       and reduce
         employer that                            for higher density or                   regulations related
      provides contracted                             new moderate                           to, internal or
         services to the                            income residential                    detached accessory
      municipality, or any                            development in                        dwelling units in
     other public employer                        commercial or mixed                      residential zones.
      that operates within                        use zones near major
        the municipality.                           transit investment
                                                        corridors.



2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                                              PAGE | 9-1
9 – MODERATE INCOME HOUSING


9.1 WHAT WE KNOW


LOW-INCOME HOUSING

The Utah Affordable Housing Database, managed by the Utah Department of Housing & Community
Development, lists four apartment complexes as low-income apartments, which contain a total of 352 units.
These are comprised of 70 one-bedroom units; 223 two-bedroom units; and 59 three-bedroom units. See Table
9.1. Additional low-income units are available in complexes that, as a whole, are not classified low income, such as
Lions Gate and Brick Gate in the Fireclay District.



Table 9.1: Current Low Income Apartment Complexes in Murray

 Property Name                     Address                              Bedrooms     Total      Approximate
                                                                                     Units      Monthly Rent

 Birkhill on Main                  16 E. Gilbride Ave                   1            70         $447


 Birkhill on Main                  16 E. Gilbride Ave                   2            15         $629


 Birkhill on Main                  16 E. Gilbride Ave                   3            11         $815


 Frontgate Apartments              4623 South Urban Way (230 West)      2            80         $784


 Frontgate Apartments              4623 S Urban Way                     3            48         $950


 Hillside Apartments               5484 S. 235 E.                       2            48         $699


 Parkgate Apartments               5491 Jackie s Way (141 East)         2            80         $784


 Total                                                                               352


                         Source: Utah Affordable Housing Database (Utah Department of Housing & Community Development)




2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                                                 PAGE | 9-2
                                                                           9 – MODERATE INCOME HOUSING




As part of the creation of redevelopment areas, Murray has set aside housing funds to be used to assist with the
development of affordable housing within the City. The City’s five redevelopment areas, along with the estimated
amount of housing set-aside funds is shown in Table 9.2

Table 9.2: Housing Set Asides by Redevelopment Area


        Description                CBD                Cherry           East Vine        Smelter          Fireclay


          Base Year                1982                2005                2007


         Total Years                 20                   15                 20              32                 20


     Expiration Year               2034                2023                2028            2023             2032


  Housing Set Aside                20%                   0%                  0%            20%              20%


     Estimated Total
                              $4,663,824                 $0                  $0       $2,636,337       $4,493,131
      Housing Funds




2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                                                PAGE | 9-3
9 – MODERATE INCOME HOUSING


AREA MEDIAN INCOMES

In order to determine the availability of affordable housing, or the opportunity for low- to moderate-income
households to live in the City, this section defines what is affordable for the targeted income groups at 80 percent,
50 percent, and 30 percent of the Area Median Income. The FY2014 HUD AMI 1 is $68,700. Given this AMI, the
targeted income group cut-offs are shown in the Table 9.3 below.

Table 9.3: Income Thresholds for Targeted Income Groups


                                                              30% of AMI           50% of AMI           80% of AMI


       Household Income (based on HUD AMI for families)          $20,610               $34,350              $54,960




9.2 HOW IT WILL HELP US PLAN FOR THE FUTURE

HUD considers an affordable monthly housing payment for either a mortgage or rent to be no greater than 30
percent of gross monthly income. This 30 percent should include utilities and other housing costs such as
mortgage and hazard insurance. Table 9.4 below shows affordable monthly allowances for each of the targeted
income group levels. These amounts represent total housing costs affordable at 30 percent of gross income. Utah
Code does not stipulate whether those of moderate income must be able to purchase a home, so the allowance
considers affordability for either a mortgage or rental rate. A family choosing housing would need to factor
utilities and other fees for a given housing unit within this affordable range. For example, a household at the 80
percent AMI threshold has a monthly housing allowance of $1,374. If utilities are $250, the family can afford a rent
or mortgage payment of $1,124 per month.

Table 9.4: Affordable Monthly Housing Allowances for Targeted Income Groups


    Family Income Level                                      30% of AMI            50% of AMI           80% of AMI


    Monthly Housing Allowance (Including Utilities)                 $515                  $859               $1,374

    Monthly Housing Payment Allowance
                                                                    $265                  $609               $1,124
    (not including $250 in Utilities)




1
 The HUD AMI figure is released annually. It is based on a median family income and used as a standard figure
across all HUD programs. Although it is a family income, it is the standard figure used by HUD and other housing
programs, as well as affordability studies and consolidated plans, even when compared against households. This
is to maintain comparability across programs and studies. This study uses the HUD AMI for this comparability and
industry standard. If household income were to be used instead of family income to compare to affordable
housing units, the City would find less affordable units within the City.


2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                                                 PAGE | 9-4
                                                                                       9 – MODERATE INCOME HOUSING


Table 9.5 shows the home price ranges affordable for targeted income groups to purchase at various interest
rates. Note the significant difference the interest rate makes on affordability. This assumes utility payments at
$250 per month,2 current Murray property tax rates, mortgage and hazard insurance, interest at the given rates,
30-year mortgage term and a ten percent down payment. While current rates are between four and five percent,
making housing much more affordable now, affordability in the City will be more difficult to maintain if interest
rates rise.

Table 9.5: Affordable Home Price Ranges by Targeted Income Group and Interest Rate


                                                                          Home Price Range
                         Household
        Household
                          Income              4 Percent Mortgage          5 Percent Mortgage         6 Percent Mortgage
      Income Range
                           Range
                                              Low          High            Low           High         Low            High

    < 30% of AMI        < $20,610                   $0     $52,346               $0       $47,456           $0       $43,172

                        $20,610 -
                                              $52,346     $120,135         $47,456       $108,912     $43,172        $99,811
    30% to 50% of AMI   $34,350

                        $34,350 -
                                              $120,135    $221,818        $108,912       $201,095    $99,811        $182,940
    50% to 80% of AMI   $54,960



The maximum monthly rental allowance for 80% AMI is $1,374, including $250 for utilities.

Table 9.6: Affordable Home Rental Ranges, Including Utilities


                                                                                        Affordable Home Rental Price Range
                   Household Income Level                            Income Range
                                                                                                              (with Utilities)


                              < 30% of AMI                                < $20,610                               up to $515


                         30% to 50% of AMI                         $20,610 - $34,350                              $515-$859


                         50% to 80% of AMI                         $34,350 - $54,960                             $859-$1,374


                                Above 80%                                  >$54,960                         More than $1,374


                                      Total




2
    Utilities are assumed to be higher for a larger average home size.


2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                                                         PAGE | 9-5
9 – MODERATE INCOME HOUSING


PRICING AND AFFORDABILITY

Single-Family Residential

As in the housing stock analysis, affordability is broken into two housing categories: one for SFRs, condos,
duplexes, PUD, and PUD townhomes and a second for multi-family rental. The affordability of the first category
of units, regardless of rental status, is based on market value as given by the County Assessor’s Office. The
affordability of multi-family units is based on rental rates, as gathered through interviews with each complex and
data from the US Census.

Table 9.7 below shows the distribution of single-family units by home value, as maintained by the Salt Lake
County Assessor’s Office. Nearly 51percent all units are valued less than $220,000, or above the $201,095
threshold.3 The median value, according to the Salt Lake County Assessor’s Office, is $200,300, while the 2013
ACS places the City’s median household value higher at $227,400. Approximately 51 percent of single-family units
are within the affordability range.

Table 9.7: Single Family Residential Unit Values


    Home Value                                 # of Units               % Total           Cumulative % of Total

    <$100,000                                        757                     5%                                5%

    $100,000 - $124,999                             1,115                    8%                              13%

    $125,000 - $139,999                              797                     5%                              18%

    $140,000 - $149,999                              645                     4%                              23%

    $150,000 - $159,999                              752                     5%                              28%

    $160,000 - $169,999                              742                     5%                              33%

    $170,000 - $179,999                              723                     5%                              38%

    $180,000 - $189,999                              865                     6%                              44%

    $190,000 - $199,999                              888                     6%                              50%

    $200,000 - $219,999                            1,823                   12%                               62%

    $220,000 - $239,999                             1,371                    9%                              72%

    $240,000 - $259,999                              971                     7%                              78%

    $260,000 - $279,999                              728                     5%                              83%

    $280,000 - $299,999                              456                     3%                              86%


3
    Based on a 5 percent mortgage rate


2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                                               PAGE | 9-6
                                                                 9 – MODERATE INCOME HOUSING



 Home Value                                    # of Units    % Total      Cumulative % of Total

 $300,000 - $324,999                                  349        2%                       89%

 $325,000 - $349,999                                  306        2%                        91%

 $350,000 - $374,999                                  248        2%                        93%

 $375,000 - $399,999                                  210        1%                       94%

 $400,000 - $424,999                                  154        1%                        95%

 $425,000 - $449,999                                  141        1%                       96%

 $450,000 - $474,999                                  105        1%                        97%

 $475,000 - $499,999                                    73       0%                        97%

 $500,000 - $599,999                                   175       1%                       98%

 $600,000 - $699,999                                   87        1%                       99%

 $700,000+                                            148        1%                       100%

 Total                                              14,629     100%                      100%


Figure 9.1: Single Family Residential Unit Values
 14%
 12%
 10%
   8%
   6%
   4%
   2%
   0%




Source: Salt Lake County Assessor’s Office




2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                              PAGE | 9-7
9 – MODERATE INCOME HOUSING


Multi-Family Residential

Based on interviews with apartment complexes in Murray, as shown in Table9.8, it appears that rental units in
Murray are quite affordable, with over 90 percent of apartments below 80% AMI. 4

Table 9.8: Number of Households by Income Category with Number of Affordable Units


                                                        Affordable Home Rental
                                                                                       Estimated # of
                                                                    Price Range                          Percent of
    Household Income Level            Income Range                                   Affordable Multi-
                                                                                                              Total
                                                                                         Family Units
                                                                 (with Utilities)


               < 30% of AMI                < $20,610                 up to $515                    34         0.8%


         30% to 50% of AMI          $20,610 - $34,350                $515-$859                    243         5.6%


         50% to 80% of AMI         $34,350 - $54,960                $859-$1,374                 3,676        85.0%


                Above 80%                  >$54,960            More than $1,374                   370         8.6%


                      Total                                                                     4,323        100%




According to the ACS, the median gross rent in Murray is $902, which falls in the 50 to 80 percent of AMI income
level ($1,374 monthly rental allowance). If we assume that 3/4 of the rental units between $1,000 and $1,499 are
below $1,374, and the other 1/4 are above $1,374, then approximately 82 percent of occupied rental units are
within the 80 percent of AMI threshold. While this number is less than the estimated affordable rental units based
on the apartment interviews, it is still an extremely high affordability rate.




4
 Data was collected for 4,323 units from 26 complexes. The Assessor’s Office listed 4,721 units that could
potentially be rental units, leaving 398 units not accounted for which data was not collected.


2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                                                PAGE | 9-8
                                                                                9 – MODERATE INCOME HOUSING




Table 9.9: Gross Rent (with AMI Levels)


                                                                                                      Cumulative % of
                                       Gross Rent    Number of Units                 % of Total
                                                                                                                Total


                                   Less than $200                 10                        0%                     0%


                                     $200 to $299                 65                        1%                     1%


                   $300 to $499 (approx.. 30% AMI)               100                        2%                     3%


                                     $500 to $749              1,169                       19%                    22%


                   $750 to $849 (approx. 50% AMI)                928                       15%                    36%


                                     $849 to $999              1,407                       23%                    59%


                $1,000 to $1,375 (approx. 80% AMI)             1,436                       23%                    82%


                                    $1,375 or more               776                       12%                    94%


                                     No Cash Rent                355                        6%                   100%


                                             Total             6,246                      100%


Source: ACS 2013; ZBPF

If we assume that 82 percent of the remaining 398 units 5 fall below the 80 percent threshold, then there are
approximately an additional 326 affordable rental units, for an estimated total of 4,279 affordable rental units in
Murray, with 442 rental units that are above the 80 percent threshold, for a total rental affordability rate of 91
percent. Table 9.10 shows the distribution of all 4,721 rental units, assuming that the distribution of these units is
similar to the distribution by the US Census (Table __).




5
    Units from the apartment interviews for which data was not available


2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                                                   PAGE | 9-9
9 – MODERATE INCOME HOUSING




Table 9.10: Number of Households by Income Category with Number of Affordable Units


                                                          Home Rental Price
                                                                                 Estimated # of
                                                                    Range                         Percent of Total
 Household Income Level              Income Range                                  Multi-Family
                                                                                                     Rental Units
                                                                                          Units
                                                              (with Utilities)

 < 30% of AMI                             < $20,610               up to $515                46               1.0%

 30% to 50% of AMI                 $20,610 - $34,350              $515-$859                375               7.9%

 50% to 80% of AMI                 $34,350 - $54,960            $859-$1,374               3,859             81.7%

 Above 80%                                 >$54,960         More than $1,374               442               9.4%

 Total                                                                                    4,721             100%


MATCHING MARKET WITH DEMOGRAPHICS

Using the housing allowances calculated earlier, Table 9.11 below shows how Murray’s SFR, condo, PUD, and
duplexes match against current income at all levels for Salt Lake County. The median household income for Salt
Lake County is $60,555, with 21 percent of households in the County falling within the $50,000 to $74,999 range.
In Murray, roughly 48 percent of the SFR, condo, PUD and duplex units are affordable to households in that
income range. The percent of homes in each home value range meet the percent of income ranges within the
County for incomes between $25,000 and $74,999. There is, however, a shortage homes for incomes above
$75,000 and below $25,000, though it is likely that housing needs for homes with less than $25,000 in income rent
are met through the low-income rental market.




2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                                               PAGE | 9-10
                                                                              9 – MODERATE INCOME HOUSING


Table 9.11: Percent of Households by Income Category with Percent of Affordable Single-Family Units


                                       % of Households in
                                                                  Affordable Housing Price            % of Properties in
 Household Income Range                    Income Range –
                                                                     Range (5% Mortgage)                   Value Range
                                         Salt Lake County

 $10,000 or less                                     5.0%                               $0                         0.0%

 $10,000 to $14,999                                  3.9%                      $0 - $22,359                        0.0%

 $15,000 to $24,999                                  9.0%                 $22,364 - $67,087                        0.1%

 $25,000 to $34,999                                  9.3%                $67,091 - $111,814                      10.0%

 $35,000 to $49,999                                 13.6%               $111,819 - $178,906                       27.3%

 $50,000 to $74,999                                 20.9%               $178,910 - $290,724                      47.8%

 $75,000 to $99,999                                  14.7%             $290,729 - $402,543                        9.0%

 $100,000 to $149,999                               14.5%              $402,548 - $626,181                         4.5%

 $150,000 to $199,999                                4.9%              $626,185 - $849,819                        0.9%

 $200,000 or more                                    4.3%                 $849,823 or more                         0.5%



Based on the percent of households in Salt Lake County within specific income ranges, and the percentage of
rental units in Murray that are within the affordable home rental ranges for those income ranges, 91 percent of
rental units are affordable to households at 80 percent of AMI; therefore, there is a reasonable opportunity for a
household in Salt Lake County to rent in Murray. Furthermore, the majority of apartment complexes interviewed
stated that they accept Section 8 vouchers, which increases the overall affordability of apartments in Murray to
low-income households.




2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                                                    PAGE | 9-11
9 – MODERATE INCOME HOUSING


Table 9.12: Percent of Households by Income Category with Percent of Affordable Multi-Family units


                                            % of Households in
                                               Income Range –      Affordable Home Rental      Estimated % of Units in
 Household Income Range
                                                                               Price Range       Value Range - Murray
                                              Salt Lake County

 $10,000 or less                                          5.0%                    $0 - $250                      0.0%

 $10,000 to $14,999                                       3.9%                  $250 - $375                      0.0%

 $15,000 to $24,999                                       9.0%                  $375 - $625                      2.0%

 $25,000 to $34,999                                       9.3%                  $625 - $875                     10.0%

 $35,000 to $49,999                                      13.6%                $875 - $1,250                     61.7%

 $50,000 to $74,999                                      20.9%               $1,250 - $1,875                    26.5%

 $75,000 to $99,999                                      14.7%              $1,875 - $2,500                      0.0%

 $100,000 to $149,999                                    14.5%              $2,500 - $3,750                      0.0%

 $150,000 to $199,999                                     4.9%              $3,750 - $5,000                      0.0%

 $200,000 or more                                         4.3%              $5,000 or more                       0.0%




For the targeted low- and moderate-income households, there are many units available that are affordable to
households below 50 percent of AMI. Of the 14,630 single-family, duplex, PUD, or condo units, approximately
7,392, or 51 percent, are available to those with less than 80 percent of AMI.

Table 9.13: Number of Affordable Units by Targeted Income Group


                                                                                                Number of Affordable
                                                                  Affordable Home Price
         Household Income Level                Income Range                                      SFR, Condo, PUD,
                                                                  Range (5% Mortgage)
                                                                                                   Duplex Units


                        < 30% of AMI               < $20,610                    $0 - $47,546                        0


                   30% to 50% of AMI        $20,610 - $34,350             $47,456 - $108,912                     1,411


                   50% to 80% of AMI        $34,350 - $54,960            $108,912 - $201,095                    5,981




2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                                                   PAGE | 9-12
                                                                                9 – MODERATE INCOME HOUSING


Combining the total number of affordable single family units and multi-family units indicates a total of 9,840
affordable units in Murray or 60 percent of the 19,351 units in Murray (Table 9.14). Therefore, there is a reasonable
opportunity for those making 80 percent of AMI to live in Murray.

Table 9.14: Total Number of Affordable Units by Targeted Income Group

                                                    Number of     Number of
                                                     Affordable   Affordable         Total
 Household Income                                                                              % of All     Cumulative %
                                Income Range       SFR, Condo,         Multi-   Affordable
 Level                                                                                           Units        of All Units
                                                   PUD, Duplex        Family         Units
                                                          Units        Units

 < 30% of AMI                        < $20,610                0           46            46          0.2%             0.2%

 30% to 50% of AMI           $20,610 - $34,350            1,411           375         1,786         9.2%             9.5%

 50% to 80% of AMI           $34,350 - $54,960            5,981         3,859        9,840      50.9%               60.3%

 Total                                                    7,392         4,279        11,671         60.3%



Table 9.15: Percent of Units by Household Income Range


                                  % of Households in     % of Single Family     % of Multi-Family
                                                                                                      % of Total Units in
 Household Income Range          Income Range –Salt          Units in Value        Units in Value
                                                                                                            Value Range
                                        Lake County                  Range                 Range

 $10,000 or less                                  5.0%                  0%                    0%                     0%

 $10,000 to $14,999                               3.9%                  0%                    0%                     0%

 $15,000 to $24,999                              9.0%                   0%                    2%                     1%

 $25,000 to $34,999                               9.3%                  12%                   10%                   11%

 $35,000 to $49,999                              13.6%                  36%                   62%                   49%

 $50,000 to $74,999                              20.9%                  40%                   26%                   33%

 $75,000 to $99,999                              14.7%                   7%                   0%                     4%

 $100,000 to $149,999                            14.5%                  3%                    0%                     2%

 $150,000 to $199,999                            4.9%                   1%                    0%                     0%

 $200,000 or more                                 4.3%                  0%                    0%                     0%

Mortgage rates can significantly influence the percent of affordable homes. For example, when calculating
housing costs, if a 6 percent mortgage rate is used instead of a 5 percent mortgage then the overall percent of
affordable homes decreases from 60.3 percent to 52.0 percent.

Table 9.16: Percent of Units by Mortgage Rate



2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                                                     PAGE | 9-13
9 – MODERATE INCOME HOUSING




 Household Income
                        4% Mortgage     % of Total   5% Mortgage        % of Total   6% Mortgage     % of Total
 Level

 Affordable SFR                9,279        63.4%            7,392          50.5%            5,791       39.6%

 Affordable MFR                4,279        50.5%            4,279          50.5%           4,279        50.5%

 Total Affordable
                               13,558        70.1%          11,671          60.3%          10,070        52.0%
 Units

 Total Units                   19,351                       19,351                          19,351



9.3 MODERATE INCOME HOUSING GOAL, OBJECTIVES & STRATEGIES


MODERATE INCOME HOUSING OVERALL GOAL

Provide a diversity of housing through a range of types and development patterns to expand the moderate
income housing options available to existing and future residents.


MODERATE INCOME HOUSING STRATEGIES & IMPLEMENTATION PLANS

STRATEGY: DEMONSTRATE INVESTMENT IN THE REHABILITATION OR EXPANSION OF INFRASTRUCTURE
THAT FACILITATES THE CONSTRUCTION OF MODERATE-INCOME HOUSING

         Action Item: The Community and Economic Development will collaborate with the Murray City Water
         Department to update their masterplan and identify areas of opportunity for increased capacity by
         December 31st, 2023.

         Action Item: The Community and Economic Development Department will collaborate with Murray City
         Power to create a masterplan and help identify areas of opportunity for increased capacity and other
         infrastructure improvements by December 31st, 2025.

         Action Item: In coordination with Murray City Parks and Recreation, Community and Economic
         Development Staff will evaluate the 2020 Parks and Recreation Masterplan and provide an update to the
         City Council on the progress of the 10-year plan by December 31st, 2025.

         Action Item: In coordination with the Murray City Engineering Division, Community and Economic
         Development Staff will evaluate the 2021 Transportation Masterplan and provide an update to the City
         Council on the progress of the key elements by December 31st, 2026.

         Action Item: The Community and Economic Development Department will collaborate with the Murray
         City Waste Water Division to update their masterplan and identify areas of opportunity for increased
         capacity by December 31st, 2027.




2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                                            PAGE | 9-14
                                                                         9 – MODERATE INCOME HOUSING


STRATEGY: CREATE OR ALLOW FOR, AND REDUCE REGULATIONS RELATED TO, INTERNAL OR DETACHED
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS (ADU) IN RESIDENTIAL ZONES.

      Action Plan: The Community and Economic Development Department by December 31 st, 2023 will
      review regulations to facilitate the construction of additional detached accessory dwelling units,
      including a review of the following items:

             Determine whether the city should allow a second ADU to be located on residential properties.
             Conduct a review of the setback requirements for detached ADUs and propose changes.
             Consider allowing a second level for appropriately located accessory structures when the second
              story would be used as an ADU.


STRATEGY: AMEND LAND USE REGULATIONS TO ALLOW FOR HIGHER DENSITY OR NEW MODERATE
INCOME RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT IN COMMERCIAL OR MIXED USE ZONES NEAR MAJOR TRANSIT
INVESTMENT CORRIDORS.

      Action Item: In conjunction with city leadership, the Community and Economic Development
      Department will review the Murray City Center District zone by December 31st, 2023 and recommend
      changes to help facilitate moderate income housing.

      Action Item: Murray City Community and Economic Development Department staff will conduct a
      review of the Murray Central Mixed-Use zone by December 31st, 2024, and propose amendments that
      would increase the availability and likelihood that moderate income housing would be constructed.

      Action Item: Murray City Community and Economic Development Department staff will conduct a
      review of the Centers Mixed Use zone by December 31st, 2025, and propose amendments that would
      increase the availability and likelihood that moderate income housing would be constructed.

      Action Item: As part of the station area planning process the Community and Economic Development
      Department staff will conduct research into and draft an appropriate mixed-use zone or zones for use in
      the Fashion Place West area by December 31st, 2024.



STRATEGY: IMPLEMENT A MORTGAGE ASSISTANCE PROGRAM FOR EMPLOYEES OF THE MUNICIPALITY,
AND EMPLOYER THAT PROVIDES CONTRACTED SERVICES TO THE MUNICIPALITY, OR ANY OTHER PUBLIC
EMPLOYER THAT OPERATES WITHIN THE MUNICIPALITY.

      Action Item: The Community and Economic Development Department in conjunction with the Murray
      City Finance Department will scope and determine feasibility for a down payment assistance program by
      December 31st, 2022.

      Action Item: By December 31st, 2023, city staff will present a proposal for a down payment assistance
      program to be reviewed by city leaders.




2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                                           PAGE | 9-15
9 – MODERATE INCOME HOUSING


STRATEGY: DEVELOP AND ADOPT STATION AREA PLANS IN ACCORDANCE WITH STATE STATUTE 10-9A-
403.1.

      Action Item: By December 31st, 2025, in accordance with state statute; Murray City will have adopted
      Station Area Plans for all currently active light and commuter rail stations.

      Action Item: By December 31st, 2023, Murray City will have adopted a Station Area Plan for the Murray
      North, also known as Fireclay, light rail station.

      Action Item: By December 31st, 2024, Murray City will have amended the Murray Central Small Area Plan
      to reflect the requirements dictated by state statute.

      Action Item: By December 31st, 2025, Murray City will have amended the Fashion Place West Small Area
      Plan to reflect the requirements dictate by state statute.




2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                                          PAGE | 9-16
                                                                                             10 – PUBLIC SERVICES




CHAPTER 10 - PUBLIC SERVICES

Murray City provides most of its own services, including Police, Fire, Power, Water, Sewer, Library, Senior Center,
and Parks and Recreation.

In this chapter, plans for the future are discussed in three sections: 10.1 Parks/Trails/Open Space; 10.2
Nature/Environment/Infrastructure/Resilience; and 10.3 Community/Culture/Historic Preservation.

10.1 PARKS/TRAILS/OPEN SPACE

Playgrounds, sports fields, walking and biking trails, city parks
with towering mature trees, neighborhood pocket parks, the city
cemetery, vacant lots, bike lanes, and networks of street trees all
comprise the natural environment of the city. Together, these
individual components enrich daily life.

         “People with regular access to urban green spaces
         experience less stress, lower levels of fear and aggression
         and a lower incidence of childhood asthma than those
                                  1
         who lack such access.”




1
 http://www.americanforests.org/magazine/article/in-the-garden-cemetery-the-revival-of-americas-first-urban-
parks/

2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                                                 PAGE | 10-1
10 – PUBLIC SERVICES


10.1 PARKS & OPEN SPACE GOAL AND SUPPORTING OBJECTIVES




                                                Continue to
                                             promote Murray’s
                                             image through its
                                              parks and open
                  Ensure new                      space
               developments of                 opportunities.              Maintain parks and
               any development
                                                                           open space service
               pattern and scale
                                                                              levels within
                have parks and
                                                                             neighborhoods
                  open space
                                                                           (existing and new)
                opportunities to
                                                                             and city-wide.
                  serve their
                   residents.
                                               GOAL: Provide and
                                              promote a variety of
                                             parks and open spaces
                                                for residents and                         Ensure the
                                            visitors to serve a range                   provision and
        Green up the core                      of needs related to
                                                   lifestyle and
                                                                                       maintenance of
         of the city – bring
                                                 demographics,                         parks and open
        vegetation back to
                                             including age, ability,                  space facilities are
          the commercial
                                                accessibility and                        a priority as
           and industrial
                                                      income.                         Murray grows and
         areas of the city.
                                                                                        changes in the
                                                                                            future.

                                Coordinate with                    Continue to
                                  surrounding                   develop new and
                               communities, the                 improve existing
                                county, and the                   trailways and
                               broader region in               routes to offer safe
                                  achieving a                  and efficient travel
                               regional network                  options for non-
                                    of trails                       motorists.




2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                                                  PAGE | 10-2
                                                                                           10 – PUBLIC SERVICES



WHAT WE KNOW: PARKS/OPEN SPACE

Murray’s approximately 275 acres of parkland consist of a variety of park types from Mini-Parks less than 1 acre in
size to Neighborhood Parks that range from 2-50 acres, to one Community Park, Murray City Park, which is larger
than 50 acres. The 2003 General Plan included a Park Needs Analysis based on guidelines from the National
Recreation and Park Association (NPRA) which recommend a ratio of park/open space acres to population of 6.25
to 10.5 acres of park/open space per 1,000 people. In 2003 Murray’s ratio was 6.9 acres per 1,000 people. The 2003
plan directed that in order to maintain the status quo as the population increases, approximately 55 acres of parks
and open space will need to be added by 2020. Unfortunately, although since 2003 the population has grown and
a new area annexed, no new parks/open space have been added. This means that the current ratio of park/open
space to population has dropped to 5.6 acres per person.

While the acres-to-population ratio is an important consideration, parkland distribution is perhaps an even more
important concern of Murray residents. The NRPA recommends various radii for park size to ensure convenient
access for all citizens. This is ¼ mile for mini-parks, ½ mile for neighborhood parks, and 1 mile for community
parks. Map 10.1 shows areas of the city that do or do not have access to a park/open space within these
parameters.

The current Murray City Parks and Recreation Comprehensive Master Plan was completed in 1994. While an
excellent plan, Murray City needs an updated Parks and Recreation Master plan that addresses the changes of the
last twenty plus years.

Map 10.1 Park Access Extent




2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                                              PAGE | 10-3
10 – PUBLIC SERVICES



WHAT WE KNOW: TRAILS

“Trail” in the context of this section is a linear route for pedestrians and bicyclists that is separated from vehicular
traffic and used for recreation or transportation. On-street bicycle facilities are addressed in the transportation
section of this plan. The 1994 Parks and Recreation Comprehensive Master Plan identified the Jordan River
Parkway Trail as the only significant trail in the City. Over 20 years later, the City is working to implement the
2003 plan’s recommendation for trails along Little Cottonwood Creek and Big Cottonwood Creek.

Despite being the only significant trail, the Jordan River Parkway fills an important role as a regional trail. A 1994
Salt Lake County Trail Master Plan identified the Jordan River Trail as a multi-jurisdictional trail that would
eventually connect Utah Lake with the Great Salt Lake. As of this writing, the Jordan River Trail connects to Utah
Lake on the south and the Legacy Parkway trail on the north with only three gaps in 45-miles. All three of those
gaps are outside of Murray City and are expected to be complete by Spring 2017.

In recognition of the regional significance of the Jordan River, in August 2010 the Jordan River Commission was
created by an Interlocal Cooperation Agreement to “facilitate the implementation of the Blueprint Jordan River,
to serve as a technical resource to local communities, and to provide a forum for coordination of planning,
restoration, and responsible development
along the Jordan River corridor.”

The Commission has no regulatory or
maintenance authority for the Jordan River
corridor. Planning and regulation of
development within the corridor fall to the
cities and counties through which the river
runs. The role of the commission is “to
increase and improve our member agencies’
ability to implement the recommendations
of the Blueprint Jordan River, to raise public
awareness of the Jordan River corridor and
the opportunities available to enhance it,
and to help promote coordination and
communication among Jordan River
stakeholders.” Murray City has not joined
the Commission.

HOW DOES THIS HELP US PLAN FOR THE FUTURE?

Knowledge of existing conditions combined with input from the public provides a framework in which to reach
desired conditions for parks, open space and trails. To ensure a focused effort, one main goal for parks and open
space was crafted and presented to the public. Supporting objectives and strategies guide the implementation of
the goal.




2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                                                   PAGE | 10-4
                                                                                          10 – PUBLIC SERVICES



PARKS/TRAILS/OPEN SPACE GOAL, OBJECTIVES, & STRATEGIES


PARKS & OPEN SPACE OVERALL GOAL

Provide and promote a variety of parks and open spaces for residents and visitors to serve a range of needs
related to lifestyle and demographics, including age, ability, accessibility and income.

PARKS & OPEN SPACE OBJECTIVES & STRATEGIES

OBJECTIVE 1: CONTINUE TO PROMOTE MURRAY’S IMAGE THROUGH ITS PARKS AND OPEN SPACE
OPPORTUNITIES.

        Strategy: Create a visually appealing map of Murray’s parks and open space opportunities and make it
        available on the city’s website homepage.

OBJECTIVE 2: MAINTAIN PARKS AND OPEN SPACE SERVICE LEVELS WITHIN NEIGHBORHOODS (EXISTING
AND NEW) AND CITY-WIDE.

        Strategy: Update the Murray Parks and Open Space Master Plan.

        Strategy: Provide small, neighborhood-size parks and open space opportunities city-wide.

OBJECTIVE 3: ENSURE THE PROVISION AND MAINTENANCE OF PARKS AND OPEN SPACE FACILITIES ARE A
PRIORITY AS MURRAY GROWS AND CHANGES IN THE FUTURE.

        Strategy: Create sustainable maintenance plans for parks and open space facilities.

OBJECTIVE 4: ENSURE MURRAY CONTINUES TO LEAD AS A STEWARD OF THE JORDAN RIVER PARKWAY.

        Strategy: Evaluate the benefits of joining the Jordan River Commission.

        Strategy: Evaluate opportunities to enhance the JRP north of 4800 South.

OBJECTIVE 5: CONTINUE TO DEVELOP NEW AND IMPROVE EXISTING TRAILWAYS AND ROUTES TO OFFER
SAFE AND EFFICIENT TRAVEL OPTIONS FOR NON-MOTORISTS.

        Strategy: Identify a list of trailways to be improved or developed

        Strategy: Provide on-going funding for planning and construction of trails.

        Strategy: Pursue a separated crossing over State Street to facilitate safe east-west connectivity for non-
        motorists.

OBJECTIVE 6: COORDINATE WITH SURROUNDING COMMUNITIES, THE COUNTY, AND THE BROADER
REGION IN ACHIEVING A REGIONAL NETWORK OF TRAILS.

        Strategy: Assist Salt Lake County with implementation of the recommendations of the East-West Trails
        Master Plan.




2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                                              PAGE | 10-5
10 – PUBLIC SERVICES


       Strategy: Have a Murray City representative attend CCP (Plan-TAC) meetings to stay connected with
       leaders of neighboring local governments.

       Strategy: Proactively identify preferred routes through Murray.

OBJECTIVE 7: GREEN UP THE CORE OF THE CITY – BRING VEGETATION BACK TO THE COMMERCIAL AND
INDUSTRIAL AREAS OF THE CITY.

       Strategy: Where feasible, plant street trees and incorporate landscaped park strips along State Street,
       Main Street and other core areas of the city.

       Strategy: Identify locations on key corridors that would benefit from landscaped medians.

OBJECTIVE 8: ENSURE NEW DEVELOPMENTS OF ANY DEVELOPMENT PATTERN AND SCALE HAVE PARKS
AND OPEN SPACE OPPORTUNITIES TO SERVE THEIR RESIDENTS.

       Strategy: Adopt parks and open space requirements for developers and provide density and other
       incentives to enable developers to meet parks and open space requirements.




2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                                            PAGE | 10-6
                                                                                              10 – PUBLIC SERVICES



10.2 NATURE/ENVIRONMENT/INFRASTRUCTURE/RESILIENCE

Acknowledging the natural environment allows cities to be more efficient, resilient and livable. Whether it is a
broad view of planning development to preserve natural lands, a network of green infrastructure to handle storm
water, or solar power for one building, a coordinated plan for how the city interacts with the natural environment
is a critical aspect of the general plan.

         “A resilient city is sustainable in its economy, environment, and community, but it has a deeper quality which
         enables it to quickly adapt to challenges and rebuild itself for any challenge it faces.”

From time to time all cities experience catastrophic events. Some events are environmental calamities such as
Superstorm Sandy that flooded New York City in 2012 or the EF-5 tornado that leveled Greensburg, Kansas in
2007. Other events are financial disasters such as the 2001 tech bubble and the 2008-2010 Great Recession. Still
other events are community tragedies such as the Sandy Hook Elementary school shooting in 2012 or the clashes
between residents and police that took place in several cities during 2014-2015. Some cities will quickly rebound
from such events and others will not. What is the difference? Resiliency. Resiliency is the ability to recover readily
from adversity. Cities that rebound easily operate from a paradigm of resiliency and thus have capacity to recover
from catastrophes.

BENEFITS OF RESILIENT CITIES

The benefits of resiliency seem obvious. A city that is prepared to recover from adverse economic, environmental,
or community events is better for the citizens and businesses of that city. People can feel secure in their homes.
Businesses that can remain in business offer job security. However, resilient cities are capable of much more than
just recovering from adversity. Resilient cities are also adaptable to change—variable environmental conditions,
fluctuating economic conditions, shifting social conditions. Adaption allows cities to meet the daily, sometimes
seemingly insignificant, demands of civilization.




2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                                                 PAGE | 10-7
10 – PUBLIC SERVICES




                                     Maintain up to date
                                  awareness of population
                                   trends and forecasts to
                                 help determine the extent
                                    and capacity of public
                                    services, facilities and
                                  infrastructure to support
                                     growth sustainably
                                   without compromising
                                      quality of service.


      Ensure development                                        Promote low-impact
      does not negatively                                        development (LID)
     impact water quality,                                     standards and the use
        both above and                                         of green infrastructure
         underground.                                               mechanisms.

                                 GOAL: Be stewards of the
                                   natural environment
                               through sustainable growth
                                and development patterns,
                                 which help Murray City be
                               prepared for change and the
                                  ability to adapt to new
                               situations, whether they are
                                economic, environmental,
                                   or cultural in nature.

      Capitalize on areas
                                                                     Ensure that
        unsuitable for
                                                                infrastructure needs
     development and use
                                                               are met with the most
     them for open space
                                                               sustainable approach.
    and trail opportunities.



                                      Supports the
                                 protection of areas that
                                   are less suitable for
                                  development through
                                   the use of clustered
                                 development patterns.




2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                   PAGE | 10-8
                                                                                             10 – PUBLIC SERVICES



WHAT WE KNOW: NATURE/ENVIRONMENT/INFRASTRUCTURE/RESILIENCE


NATURE/ENVIRONMENT

Water, or rather the lack of water, defines the relationship between the city and the environment. The climate of
northern Utah is hot and dry in the summer with generally cold, snowy winters. However, in recent years the
region has experience a wide range of seasonal conditions. As is always true of a semi-arid place, water is a
concern. Currently storm water is handled with a traditional curb, gutter and pipe system. Murray provides
culinary water for its residents through eight springs and twenty wells. However, even this ground water shows
signs of depletion when there are years of successive low snow pack. Unlike other arid western cities, Murray
provides water in a manner standard for the Wasatch Front without any unique programs or water restrictions.

Little Cottonwood Creek and Big Cottonwood Creek flowing from the mountains into the Jordan River are the
main above ground water resources in the city. Their neighboring wetlands and river/creek banks are areas
sensitive to human intrusion.

UTILITIES/INFRASTRUCTURE

Murray City is also an electric power provider
and the comparatively low cost of power is
one reason why people are attracted to live in
Murray. Power is charged on an off-
peak/peak season schedule with a two-tiered
system that charges more per kwh beyond a
set base amount. Murray does have a net
metering pilot program, however it does not
currently have any policies regarding
requirements for city buildings to use
renewable energy. Also, city light design
standards are scattered throughout various
sections of the city code and are not in one
comprehensive dark sky ordinance.

RESILIENCE

Murray currently boasts high levels of resiliency in several areas. At the same time, opportunities exist for adding
areas of resiliency.

Economic Resiliency

Murray has strong economic resiliency in several areas. The city has a wide range of economic diversity across a
variety of industries including healthcare, retail, car sales, and small businesses. This means that jobs and tax
revenue for the city is not tied to one industry and the city could weather economic ups and downs specific to any
one industry. Murray is also self-supporting in terms of having its own power company, school district, and
recreation center. This allows the city flexibility regarding determination of management of these services and



2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                                                PAGE | 10-9
10 – PUBLIC SERVICES


facilities. Essentially, in these areas Murray has control over its future and isn’t bound to decisions made by
outside service providers in terms of cost and other service considerations.

Transportation is another area of strong resilience for Murray. The city is a transportation node for two types of
rail – local light rail and regional commuter rail – and also is a node for two freeways – north/south I-15 and
east/west belt route I-215. This location as a transportation node provides everyday options in terms of mode
choice, is attractive to businesses and visitors, and offers choices in the event of an emergency. Finally, a small yet
significant area of economic resiliency is the farmer’s market. Hosting a farmer’s market provides seasonally
access to fresh food which could be critical if the current food distribution chain to grocery stores is disrupted.

Environmental Resiliency

Murray City has strong environmental resiliency is several areas including renewable energy sources, rainwater
harvesting, and disaster planning and preparedness. Murray’s strength in renewable energy comes from offering
net metering for power customers with renewable energy sources such as solar panels. Net metering can
encourage people to acquire renewable energy sources for their home. Murray also allows rainwater harvesting
which residents can use to water their yards. This can provide a measure of independence from traditional water
sources. Finally, Murray City has a disaster preparedness plan which will provide resiliency in times of natural
disasters.

Community Resiliency

A community with strong social resiliency is a desirable place to live. Murray has several qualities that positively
contribute to community resiliency. These include a historic downtown that provides a sense of identity and sense
of place, a library that is also a city gathering place, and a city parks and recreation center as a gathering place.

HOW DOES THIS HELP US PLAN FOR THE FUTURE?

Utilities have a significant impact on land use
as they can dictate how land is use. For
example, water and sewer capacity are a
significant drivers in determining if a
particular piece of land can be used for a
large housing or office project. Providing
utility infrastructure can also significantly a
city’s finances and limit a city’s ability to free
finances to provide other services. With these
items in mind, the following goal and
supporting objectives were crafted to guide
decisions regarding nature, environment and
infrastructure.

While there are many strong areas of economic resiliency, there are also areas that need improvement. More
people need to have alternative modes of transportation such as riding the bus, biking, and walking to be a more
readily accessible and viable option. Considering that transportation is a top household spending category, this
will provide Murray residents with individual economic resiliency as people could choose the form of
transportation that best fits their economic condition as opposed to being dependent on car ownership.


2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                                                 PAGE | 10-10
                                                                                                10 – PUBLIC SERVICES


Housing is an area to evaluate for improved economic resiliency. For most households, housing is the top
spending category. Affordable options are needed for a range of life stages. This means people need options for
more types of housing than only single family homes or apartments. Townhouses, mother-in-law units or carriage
houses, bungalow courts, and live/work units are all options to encourage within the city.

Environmental areas where Murray City could benefit from increased resiliency are storm water, individual water
use, and urban heat islands. Storm water in the city is currently handled with a traditional pipe system. In the long
term, this can be costly and could fail in large rain events. Moving to green infrastructure could prove more
beneficial over time in terms of cost and environmental benefits.

Individual water use is an area to target for increased environmental resiliency. In an arid climate, conserving
water as much as possible provides resiliency in times of drought. Two easy ways to decrease water use is to
target two areas high in individual water use: landscape watering and toilets. Murray City can work with
organizations such as the Jordan River Water Conservancy district to implement their Localscapes program to
show homeowner’s how to transition to a lower water use yard. The city can also adopt requirements for dual
flush toilets in new construction and offer rebates for people who swap current toilets for dual flush water
efficient toilets.

Urban heat islands within the city should be addressed to improve environmental resiliency. Unshaded parking
lots and sidewalks reflect large amounts of heat that can increase the need for air conditioning in adjacent
buildings. Hot sidewalks also discourage walking thus effecting other elements of resiliency.

To improve environmental resiliency Murray City should evaluate the possibility of a green infrastructure policy
and implement if feasible, change codes to require dual flush and low flow fixtures in new construction, offer
residential water check-ups and education on outdoor water use; review pricing structure for tiered pricing levels
and appropriateness of rate and address urban heat islands by change zoning/ordinances to require street trees
and parking lot shading.

Areas in need of improvement in terms of community resiliency are tension between home owners & apartment
dwellers, a need to proactively foster a sense of community as older people pass away and new people move, and
a need to reaching out to residents in annexed areas on the east side of Murray to help them feel that they are a
part of Murray City.

Murray City can improve community resiliency by providing buffers between single-family homes and apartment
buildings so homeowners don’t feel invaded and resentful towards people living in apartments, and by hosting
community events to encourage people getting to know each other. These events could range from recreational
events such as slide-the-city, to library stuffed animal sleepovers, community councils encouraging block parties
and organizing volunteer opportunities, Murray local merchants association or team with Local First Utah, Fun
Days, revisit annexed area being on Murray City garbage pick-up, and add city-update emails to people who
would like to receive consistent communication from the city.

Improved resiliency can be reached by achieving the goals listed in the five Key Initiatives.




2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                                                  PAGE | 10-11
10 – PUBLIC SERVICES



NATURE/ENVIRONMENT/INFRASTRUCTURE/RESILIENCE GOAL, OBJECTIVES, &
STRATEGIES


NATURE/ENVIRONMENT/INFRASTRUCTURE/RESILIENCE OVERALL GOAL

Be stewards of the natural environment through sustainable growth and development patterns, which help
Murray City be prepared for change and the ability to adapt to new situations, whether they are economic,
environmental, or cultural in nature.

NATURE/ENVIRONMENT/INFRASTRUCTURE/RESILIENCE OBJECTIVES & STRATEGIES

OBJECTIVE 1: PROMOTE LOW-IMPACT DEVELOPMENT (LID) STANDARDS AND THE USE OF GREEN
INFRASTRUCTURE MECHANISMS.

        Strategy: Require that all government funded projects meet a minimum one-star Sustainable Sites (SITES)
        rating

        Strategy: Provide incentives for new development that use Low-Impact Development (LID) techniques

        Strategy: Create a city-wide green infrastructure master plan to identify which green infrastructure
        techniques to implement

OBJECTIVE 2: ENSURE THAT INFRASTRUCTURE NEEDS ARE MET WITH THE MOST SUSTAINABLE
APPROACH. MAINTAIN UP TO DATE AWARENESS OF POPULATION TRENDS AND FORECASTS TO HELP
DETERMINE THE EXTENT AND CAPACITY OF PUBLIC SERVICES, FACILITIES AND INFRASTRUCTURE TO
SUPPORT GROWTH WITHOUT COMPROMISING QUALITY OF SERVICE.

        Strategy: Conduct a life cycle analysis at both a system wide level and individual product level

OBJECTIVE 3: SUPPORT THE PROTECTION OF AREAS THAT ARE LESS SUITABLE FOR DEVELOPMENT
THROUGH THE USE OF CLUSTERED DEVELOPMENT PATTERNS.

        Strategy: Adopt cluster development regulations for areas adjacent to open space and natural areas

OBJECTIVE 4: CAPITALIZE ON AREAS UNSUITABLE FOR DEVELOPMENT AND USE THEM FOR OPEN SPACE
AND TRAIL OPPORTUNITIES.

        Strategy: Identify areas unsuitable for development and create an overlay designation

        Strategy: Create an open space and trail implementation plan

OBJECTIVE 5: ENSURE DEVELOPMENT DOES NOT NEGATIVELY IMPACT WATER QUALITY, BOTH ABOVE
AND UNDERGROUND.

        Strategy: Adopt code requirements for new projects to meet Sustainable Sites (SITES) requirements




2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                                               PAGE | 10-12
                                                                                           10 – PUBLIC SERVICES



10.3 COMMUNITY, CULTURE, AND HISTORIC PRESERVATION

        "We regret much of what we've built; we regret much of what we've torn down. But we've never regretted
        preserving anything." ~Daniel Sack

A comment received from a public meeting during the general plan update process read “I love my historic
neighborhood.” Preserving historic structures, neighborhoods, and businesses districts provides a tangible link to
the past that can tie people to a place.




                                                   Preserve key historic
                                                     landmarks when
                                                         feasible.

               Capitalize on historic
                    resources as
                                                                                        Proactively identify
                 opportunities for
                                                                                      historic neighborhoods
              investing in the unique
                                                                                        and districts as the
                character of Murray
                                                                                      community grows and
              City from an economic
                                                                                              evolves.
                   development
                    perspective.




                                                        Sustain the
                                                        culture and
        Work to provide a                               identity of
         balance of new                                 Murray City.                                 Provide arts and
      development and the
                                                                                                  cultural activities for a
         preservation of
                                                                                                   range of needs and
      existing development
                                                                                                      demographics.
            patterns as
     redevelopment occurs.




                              Increase the awareness
                                  and education of
                               residents and visitors
                                                                         Continue to support
                                 regarding Murray
                                                                        programs that engage
                                 City’s history and
                                                                        residents and visitors
                               heritage through the
                                                                       in cultural experiences.
                                   preservation of
                                  significant sites,
                               structures, and areas.




2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                                                PAGE | 10-13
10 – PUBLIC SERVICES



WHAT WE KNOW: COMMUNITY, CULTURE, & HISTORIC PRESERVATION

Murray City created its own local Murray Historic Registry in 1997. The
registry is a non-regulatory ordinance (City Code 2.40.020) that requires
owners to communicate with the Cultural Arts Division prior to alterations
to the original building materials or footprint of the building.

Two key accomplishments since the 2003 General Plan are the listing on the
National Register of Historic Places of the Murray Downtown Residential
Historic District in 2005 and the Murray Downtown Historic District in 2006.

The Murray Downtown Historic District includes 29 contributing structures,
comprised primarily of the business district along State Street and the east
                                                                                       th
side of Poplar Street, dating to Murray’s establishment of a ‘downtown’ in the early 20 century.

The Downtown Residential District is located east of the Downtown Historic Business District. This area of early
                                                                               th
residential architecture includes 185 structures representative of the early 20 century neighborhoods. Buildings
of significance date between 1870 and 1950.

The most recent historic district is the Hillside Residential District, listed in 2012. The contributing structures in
this district represent the growth and change of Murray post World War II as the Salt Lake Valley experienced
suburban growth.




2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                                                    PAGE | 10-14
                                                                                             10 – PUBLIC SERVICES



HOW DOES THIS HELP US PLAN FOR THE FUTURE?

By knowing where the key, historic structures are and understanding how they contribute to the overall character
and identity of Murray, the city can be informed as it makes decisions that will balance change with preservation.
Achieving the right balance will be different for each context, and can be informed by doing more detailed
analysis when historic sites are involved.

COMMUNITY, CULTURE & PRESERVATION GOAL, OBJECTIVES, & STRATEGIES


COMMUNITY, CULTURE & PRESERVATION OVERALL GOAL

Sustain the culture and identity of Murray City while embracing opportunities for change and progress.


COMMUNITY, CULTURE & PRESERVATION OBJECTIVES & STRATEGIES

OBJECTIVE 1: PRESERVE KEY HISTORIC LANDMARKS WHEN FEASIBLE.

        Strategy: Prior to redevelopment, evaluate opportunities for incorporating key historic landmarks into
        new development rather than defaulting to demolition.

        Strategy: Work to prioritize key historic landmarks to allow for balanced decisions regarding preservation
        and new development opportunities.

        Strategy: Ensure adequate funding for city-owned historic landmarks and work with owners to provide
        incentives for the care of private landmarks.

OBJECTIVE 2: PROACTIVELY IDENTIFY HISTORIC NEIGHBORHOODS AND DISTRICTS AS THE COMMUNITY
GROWS AND EVOLVES.

        Strategy: Provide funding for reconnaissance and intensive level surveys of neighborhoods that will be
        over 50 years of age in the next 10 years.

OBJECTIVE 3: PROVIDE ARTS AND CULTURAL ACTIVITIES FOR A RANGE OF NEEDS AND DEMOGRAPHICS.

        Strategy: Continue to provide funding for the city to coordinate and promote arts and cultural activities.

        Strategy: Conduct a yearly survey to ascertain the range of needs and interests of Murray residents.

        Strategy: Continue to support programs that engage residents and visitors in cultural experiences.

OBJECTIVE 4: INCREASE THE AWARENESS AND EDUCATION OF RESIDENTS AND VISITORS REGARDING
MURRAY CITY’S HISTORY AND HERITAGE THROUGH THE PRESERVATION OF SIGNIFICANT SITES,
STRUCTURES, AND AREAS.

        Strategy: Monuments/markers like in Downtown Salt Lake City that indicate where historic sites were
        (e.g. pioneer era schools)

        Strategy: Create an on-line walking/driving tour guide of significant Murray City historic sites.



2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                                                 PAGE | 10-15
10 – PUBLIC SERVICES




OBJECTIVE 5: WORK TO PROVIDE A BALANCE OF NEW DEVELOPMENT AND THE PRESERVATION OF
EXISTING DEVELOPMENT PATTERNS AS REDEVELOPMENT OCCURS.

       Strategy: Identify structures and areas that can provide an anchor to new development opportunities.

OBJECTIVE 6: CAPITALIZE ON HISTORIC RESOURCES AS OPPORTUNITIES FOR INVESTING IN THE UNIQUE
CHARACTER OF MURRAY CITY FROM AN ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PERSPECTIVE.

       Strategy: Identify structures and areas that are iconic representations of Murray and evaluate the
       potential for rehabilitation and adaptive reuse.




2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                                          PAGE | 10-16
                                                                                  11 – PLAN ADMINISTRATION




CHAPTER 11 - PLAN ADMINISTRATION & IMPLEMENTATION

A general plan is only as good as the manner in which it is administered and implemented. Providing clear links
between the guiding language of this document and the actions to be made by the city will help to ensure
transparency and confidence in the General Plan.

An annual review provides the opportunity to analyze decisions compared
with the policy guidance of the general plan and to evaluate recent trends.
Using an annual progress report to communicate what has been done and
what is on the priority list will help communicate how the general plan is
being administered.

Predictability and knowing when to anticipate adjustments to the General
Plan can help residents feel informed of potential changes to their
expectations. Identifying a particular timeframe each year when
modifications can be proposed to the General Plan can help achieve a level
of predictability.




2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                                             PAGE | 11-1
11 – PLAN ADMINISTRATION


PLAN ADMINISTRATION GOAL AND SUPPORTING OBJECTIVES




                                              Align the goals of
                                              the plan with the
                                                   Capital
                                             improvement Plan
             Make the General
             Plan dynamic with
                the ability to                                                   Link objectives
             strategically make                                                  with the annual
               amendments as                                                      city budget.
              future conditions
                   change.
                                               GOAL: Create a
                                                  readable,
                                              understandable
                                           document and ensure
                                           the responsibilities for
                                          administering the plan
                                           are clearly stated and
      Adjust goals after
                                          metrics are established                          Coordinate
         appropriate
        evaluation if                     for evaluating progress                       implementation
                                            in achieving desired                         responsibilities
       targets are not
            met.                                 outcomes.




                            Use benchmarks,                        Regularly report
                           indicators, targets                           on
                              and/or other                         implementation
                                metrics.                               status.




2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                                          PAGE | 11-2
                                                                                 11 – PLAN ADMINISTRATION



PLAN ADMINISTRATION & IMPLEMENTATION GOAL, OBJECTIVES, & STRATEGIES


PLAN ADMINISTRATION & IMPLEMENTATION OVERALL GOAL

Create a readable, understandable document and ensure the responsibilities for administering the plan are
clearly stated and metrics are established for evaluating progress in achieving desired outcomes.

PLAN ADMINISTRATION & IMPLEMENTATION OBJECTIVES & STRATEGIES

OBJECTIVE 1: ALIGN THE GOALS OF THE PLAN WITH THE CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PLAN

OBJECTIVE 2: LINK OBJECTIVES WITH THE ANNUAL CITY BUDGET

OBJECTIVE 3: COORDINATE IMPLEMENTATION RESPONSIBILITIES

OBJECTIVE 4: REGULARLY REPORT IMPLEMENTATION STATUS

        Strategy: Prepare an annual progress report that includes key accomplishments, priority issues, action
        items, and key implementing agencies. Analyze and report on how actions align with the policy
        direction(s) of the plan.

OBJECTIVE 5: USE BENCHMARKS/INDICATORS/TARGETS/OTHER METRICS

OBJECTIVE 6: ADJUST GOALS IF TARGETS ARE NOT MET




2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                                            PAGE | 11-3
11 – PLAN ADMINISTRATION


OBJECTIVE 7: MAKE THE GENERAL PLAN DYNAMIC WITH THE ABILITY TO AMEND AS FUTURE CONDITIONS
CHANGE.

      Strategy: Every five years, evaluate the past five years of implementation, take a new look at data and
      trends, and address new issues that may have emerged. Engage city departments in the evaluation and
      provide the general public a chance to provide input on new ideas or issues.




2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN – PART TWO                                                          PAGE | 11-4
2017 MURRAY GENERAL PLAN
