                                    Murray city
Who is filling out this report?
Zachary Smallwood
Planning Manager
zsmallwood@murray.utah.gov
8012702407

Provide the following information for your moderate-income housing element:


Link to adoption resolution or ordinance:
https://www.murray.utah.gov/979/Housing-Resources


Link to general plan, moderate income housing element:
https://www.murray.utah.gov/162/General-Plan

You will not be able to go back in the survey after making this selection. Please make
sure you have entered all information up to this point. TYPE OF REPORT Please choose
from the following options. Nearly all communities are in year 2-5 of their reporting.
We are in YEAR 2-5 of reporting on the implementation plan tasks and timelines we reported on
last year.




                                                                                           519
We are in YEAR 2-5 of reporting on the implementation plan
tasks and timelines we reported on last year.

2-5 YEAR REPORTING The following section is for communities in YEARS 2-5 of reporting. If
the implementation plan has been updated or amended, progress made must be documented in
this section of the report. You will enter the following information in this section: 1) Shapefiles
and data related to zoning, entitled units, and accessory dwelling units (ADUs) 2) Your
community's MIH strategies (including changes to strategies - if applicable) 3) Feedback and
recommendation regarding the MIH program


ZONING MAP
Zoning Data Statute requires that counties and municipalities provide their current zoning map.
This document should reflect current adopted ordinances.
Please be aware that zoning data submitted will be shared with the Utah Geospatial
Resource Center.


Shapefiles (.shp) must be uploaded using this link. After uploading the file, please type
"Uploaded" in the field below. If a shapefile is not available, please provide a link to maps
and tables in the field below. If you have any questions, please contact mih@utah.gov.
Uploaded

When did the last zoning map or text amendment occur?
17-Jun-25

ENTITLED UNITS The following questions ask about entitled units. Entitled units are units that
are legally allowed to be built under current zoning, existing development agreement, or other
legal mechanism, (e.g., overlay zone). This data is collected to capture current built or zoned
conditions. Please report entitled unit data as of May 1, 2025. Do not include any parcels or
units that are only planned or in the process of being rezoned as residential. Example: if a
parcel is zoned greenbelt on May 1, 2025 and a rezone application is in process, do not count it
in this data. If some parcels can’t be developed due to barriers like geography, setbacks, or
lack of infrastructure, you can explain these issues in the barriers or narrative sections of your
report.


Provide a count of entitled residential units (as defined above) that have NOT received a
building permit.
1291

Less the units, parcels, lots, or developments reported in the previous question, provide
a count of vacant parcels, lots, or developments that include an overlay zone and the




                                                                                                520
number of residential units that could be built on said parcel, lot, or development that
have NOT pulled a building permit.
0

Less the units parcels, lots, or developments reported in the previous two questions,
provide a count of vacant parcels, lots, or developments that are currently zoned
residential (single family, townhome, multi family, etc) and the number of residential units
that could be built on said parcel, lot, or development that have NOT pulled a building
permit.
60 properties; 1,954 units

From the counts reported above, provide a count of the entitled residential units which
have received will serve letters from utilities or an equivalent that shows that all utilities
and infrastructure (i.e. roads, water, sewer, power, phone, gas) are complete for the units,
parcels, or lots.
1291


Describe any barriers to developing these units that have been experienced. These
barriers could include infrastructure, public concerns, geographic constraints, etc.
Providing detail here allows us to share the experiences and needs of communities to
support the data reported above.
The vacant lots are often tied to individual ownership that have been parceled out. These are
not traditionally buildable lots as most do not have street frontage. Over half of the units cited
could be on one 26-acre parcel of which staff has received an application for construction 639
units of their total density allowed of 1040 units. Another project totaling 423 units could have
maximized density up to 475 but due to financing and site constraints only sought 423. Murray
City has a small amount of developable land and a small amount of land with suitable zoning for
moderate income housing projects. And even though a project is already entitled, strong
opposition to projects may lead to community discord or lawsuits, which leads to a legislative
body that is hesitant to approve zoning changes or make decisions that would allow for more
development in the future. Scarcity coupled with a reluctant legislative body, development is
infrequent, and acquisition of land is costly. Another important barrier is the unpredictable
nature of the housing market. Even with entitlements in place, developers face fluctuating costs
and interest rate changes. These barriers can only be factored into application processes and
permit issuance so much, the market can become unfavorable at any given time. A project that
may have been financially viable at the time of entitlement may become infeasible or impractical
later.

Provide any notes or explanations for the data entered above (e.g., upcoming
developments, clarifying data, context, etc.).
See above




                                                                                               521
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS

The following questions ask about the number of Accessory Dwelling Units (internal, external,
detached) in your county or municipality as of the report submission date.


How does the county or municipality track known "for-rent" Accessory Dwelling Units?
(select one)
Count of business licenses or permits to rent issued

Total known number of Accessory Dwelling Units recorded as of the report submission
date:
121
Total number of building permits issued to construct an ADU in the county or
municipality granted between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025:
6

Total number of business licenses or permits to rent an ADU issued in the county or
municipality granted between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025:
34



Total number of other types of permits or license issued for an ADU in the county or
municipality granted between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025 (if applicable, please
provide the count and type of permit or license issued)
N/A




                                                                                                522
REPORTING ON STRATEGY PROGRESS
The following questions ask you to provide detailed progress on the moderate-income housing
strategies between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025. A county or municipality must report on
at least the minimum strategy requirements to comply in the subsequent report.

1. Select a moderate income housing strategy from Utah Code that the county or
municipality has included in its moderate-income housing element. (For the list of
strategies, visit jobs.utah.gov/mihreporting or refer to Utah Code Section 10-9a-403 for
municipalities and Section 17-27a-403 for counties)
B
E
G
N
U

2. Reference the Implementation Plan for this strategy and list the timelines and
benchmarks that were planned to be complete between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025.
You may include actions taken before the 12-month reporting period in this report as an
ongoing action if it: i) clearly supports the moderate income housing strategy from the
initial report (e.g., previously adopted ordinance, approved a land use application, made an
investment, or approved an agreement or financing); ii) the new report shows the action is
still helpful to making progress on the strategy.
B
• The Community and Economic Development will collaborate with the Murray City Water
Department to update their masterplan and identify areas of opportunity for increased capacity
by December 31st, 2023.•The Community and Economic Development Department will
collaborate with Murray City Power to create a masterplan and help identify areas of opportunity
for increased capacity and other infrastructure improvements by December 31st, 2025.•In
coordination with Murray City Parks and Recreation, Community and Economic Development
Staff will evaluate the 2020 Parks and Recreation Masterplan and provide an update to the City
Council on the progress of the 10-year plan by December 31st, 2025.

E
• Action Plan: The Community and Economic Development Department by December 31st, 2023
will review regulations to facilitate the construction of additional detached accessory dwelling
units, including a review of the following items:oDetermine whether the city should allow a
second ADU to be located on residential properties.oConduct a review of the setback
requirements for detached ADUs and propose changes.oConsider allowing a second level for
appropriately located accessory structures when the second story would be used as an ADU.




                                                                                             523
G
• Action Item: In conjunction with city leadership, the Community and Economic Development
Department will review the Murray City Center District zone by December 31st, 2023 and
recommend changes to help facilitate moderate income housing.•Action Item: Murray City
Community and Economic Development Department staff will conduct a review of the Murray
Central Mixed-Use zone by December 31st, 2024, and propose amendments that would
increase the availability and likelihood that moderate income housing would be
constructed.•Action Item: Murray City Community and Economic Development Department staff
will conduct a review of the Centers Mixed Use zone by December 31st, 2025, and propose
amendments that would increase the availability and likelihood that moderate income housing
would be constructed.•Action Item: As part of the station area planning process the Community
and Economic Development Department staff will conduct research into and draft an
appropriate mixed-use zone or zones for use in the Fashion Place West area by December
31st, 2024.
N
• Action Item: The Community and Economic Development Department in conjunction with the
Murray City Finance Department will scope and determine feasibility for a down payment
assistance program by December 31st, 2022.•Action Item: By December 31st, 2023, city staff
will present a proposal for a down payment assistance program to be reviewed by city leaders.

U
Action Item: By December 31st, 2025, in accordance with state statute; Murray City will have
adopted Station Area Plans for all currently active light and commuter rail stations.Action Item:
By December 31st, 2023, Murray City will have adopted a Station Area Plan for the Murray
North, also known as Fireclay, light rail station.Action Item: By December 31st, 2024, Murray
City will have amended the Murray Central Small Area Plan to reflect the requirements dictated
by state statute.Action Item: By December 31st, 2025, Murray City will have amended the
Fashion Place West Small Area Plan to reflect the requirements dictate by state statute.




                                                                                               524
3. Describe each action taken between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025 to implement the
tasks listed in Question 2. Include how the actions taken support implementation of the
strategy.
B
The Murray City Water Division completed their master plan and was adopted in December of
2024. On June 5th, 2025 the Planning Commission held a public hearing to amend landscaping
ordinances to eliminate any requirements for turf in the city. This will be heard by the City
Council on August 26th. 2025.The Murray City Power Department recently selected a new
consultant for their power master plan. They anticipate having a document crafted this fall with
an adoption later this year. The Murray City Public Works Department continues upgrading
infrastructure to be better prepared for growth and housing opportunities. In the Murray central
mixed use zone water lines in Galleria Drive and Murray Boulevard were upsized to 12”. There
was a storm drain extension connecting to 5400 South to facilitate additional townhome
development on property that was previously not served.

E
During the reporting period, the Planning Division, using the recommendations from the
December 31, 2023 review, drafted and presented amendments to the zoning ordinance.
These amendments specifically addressed setback, entrance locations, and allowed size
requirements for detached ADUs. The amendments were successfully adopted on November
21st, 2024 (Ordinance 24-26). These actions directly support the reduction of regulatory barriers
with hopes that residents have more opportunities to construct ADUs and create more diverse
moderate income housing types.

G
As discussed later on in this report; the mixed use code reviews are moving at a slower pace
that Staff would like. Specifically, the Murray Central Mixed Use zone is not being evaluated
until the completion of the station area plan which is anticipated by the end of the year. This is
also the case with the Fashion Place West station area. It is anticipated that both these stations
will be adopted by year end and, with the plan in place, we can seek funding to amend zoning.

N
The Redevelopment Agency of Murray expanded the qualifications for the mortgage assistance
for employees to include employees of Murray School District and Granite School District. The
RDA Staff presented progress on the down payment assistance program at their June 2025
meeting.

U
The following provides a summary of the work completed by Murray City to meet requirements
for Station Area Planning for the period between August 1st, 2024, and July 31st, 2025. First,
Murray City has been working with the consultant Arcadis on the Murray Central Station area
plan, which includes both the Murray Central Trax station and the Murray Central Frontrunner
station.The Murray Central Station Area Plan document had its kickoff in July of 2024. Since
then, our team has been working hard to understand the existing conditions of the site and what




                                                                                                525
is possible to be done there. Due to the Murray Central area being the location of the former
Murray Smelter, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is a major stakeholder that has
been included throughout the existing conditions analysis. The Murray Central Station area is
located within a superfund site that has very strict stipulations for how the land can be used. The
record of decision was coming up on its 25th year and is due to be reviewed, so our consultant
team reached out the EPA to see if they were planning on making any changes to the decision.
Due to changes at the agency, receiving this answer took much more time than was anticipated
and delayed the planning process. We anticipated hearing back from the EPA within a certain
timeframe in the scope and the actual answer came substantially later than had been planned
for. Once we got the answer that there could potentially be changes to the record of decision,
the work group was able to get back on pace and was able to complete the analysis needed to
move to phase 2.After completing the thorough existing conditions analysis along with a
financial determination by Zion’s public finance to determine the latent potential of the site, the
project went from Phase 1 to Phase 2 in May of 2025. Phase 2 will be the phase that
determines potential projects and what the city and other stakeholders would like to see occur in
this area. Several of the major stakeholders include Intermountain Health, UTA, UDOT, and
Union Pacific. These organizations have all been invited to participate in stakeholder groups
that will be used to determine the continued direction of the planning effort. The planning
process is proceeding at a rapid pace, and the Station Area plan is on track to be adopted by
the Murray City Council and certified by the Wasatch Front Regional Council early in 2026.The
next station area plan that the city has been working on is the Fashion Place West Station Area
Plan. This area is in the southern part of Murray just south of I-215. The area surrounding the
station itself is primarily industrial with several high-profile areas nearby, including Fashion
Place Mall.In 2021, Murray Citty adopted the Fashion Place West small area plan, which laid
out the ideas for how the area surrounding the Trax station could redevelop along with
enhancing the connectivity between the station and nearby amenities such as the mall. This
plan included an extensive public engagement process and detailed what residents and visitors
would like to see for the area.Murray City hired VODA, the same consultant that created the
Fashion Place West small area plan to work with staff on adapting that plan to meet the state
requirements for a station area plan. The station area plan had its kickoff in June 2025 to begin
the work of modifying the plan to meet all state requirements. This is being done in collaboration
with Midvale City due to the station area plan boundary overlapping with their jurisdiction. VODA
has since presented to the Murray City Planning Commission and will be meeting with the City
Council during the first week of August. The plan is anticipated to be finished by November of
2025.There are two other areas in Murray that have been identified as areas within station area
plan boundaries that fall within Murray City. One of these is the Fort Union Trax Station and the
other is the Loadstone Station for the Mid-Valley Connector Bus Rapid Transit system. These
areas have had station area plans passed by their respective municipalities and Murray staff
has been compiling the information needed and drafting ordinances to get those plans adopted
for our portions of the area as well.




                                                                                                526
4.     Describe each land use regulation or land use decision made between August 1,
2024 and July 31, 2025 to implement this strategy. Include how the regulations or
decisions support efforts to implement the strategy.
B
The City Council adopted the Water Master Plan and Water Conservation plan in December of
2024. Murray Staff crafted new language eliminating requirements for turf in both residential and
commercial zones that was heard by the Planning Commission in June of 2025 with the City
Council considering the item in August of 2025.

E
Adoption of Ordinance 24-26

G
In June of 2025, the Murray City Center District was repealed and replaced with a form-based
code. This provided for reductions in parking where previous parking was increased. This also
eliminated a maximum density allowance. On July 28th, 2025 the Murray City Council held a
workshop and discussed how to improve the mixed-use zoning districts and directed staff to
evaluate them to help facilitate better projects moving forward.

N
N/A

U
VODA Landscape + Planning met with the Planning Commission at their July 17, 2024 meeting
to introduce the update to the Fashion Place West Area Plan. Staff continues to have steering
committee meetings biweekly to get this adopted by November of this year.




5.      What barriers were encountered by the county or municipality between August 1,
2024 and July 31, 2025 while implementing this strategy? Documenting barriers does
not exempt the community from reporting plan progress The minimum required number
of strategies must advance for compliance, regardless of the barriers faced. If no barriers
were experienced, write "None."
B
Ongoing efforts to coordinate the adoption of various plans with multiple City departments.

E
While review of ADU regulations is an ongoing action to implement this strategy, the legislative
body has been hesitant to adopt more permissible ADU regulations. As an example, staff




                                                                                               527
proposed removing the requirement for a detached ADU to be built with similar materials to the
main dwelling and the City Council decided to keep the requirement.

G
There has been an increase in negative public discourse regarding rental housing, which has
affected elected officials appetite for furthering housing changes especially when it comes to
mixed-use development.

N
The availability of homes that a person could qualify for is limited in Murray. A typical single-
family dwelling is between 550-580k; much higher than the 120% AMI allowance for mortgage
assistance.

U
Changes in the EPA. Getting answers to questions regarding the Record of Decision (ROD) on
the super fund site severely inhibited the ability of the station area to continue moving forward.
Coordination between agencies is also a contributing factor, being able to get the consultant,
UTA, WFRC, City Staff, UDOT, and at times other contributes to longer spans between
meetings.




6.      Describe how the market has responded to the implementation of the strategy
(e.g., units permitted, units entitled, deed restrictions, rezones, households displaced during
redevelopment, changes in rents, etc.).
B
We have not seen a significant change in the market. If anything, we have seen a slow down on
requests for rezones, new buildings, etc.

E
It is worth noting a decline in the number of entitled ADUs reported compared to the previous
year. Despite the creation of additional opportunities for ADU construction through regulatory
updates, the market response appears to be slower than anticipated by the Planning Division.

G
Overall, we have seen less requests for zoning and development in general. As an inner ring
suburb, our easily developable land is built out. Redevelopment comes at a higher cost and the
lower value land has largely been redeveloped.

N
This year, Neighborworks of Salt Lake reported that we had two individuals who were able to
purchase homes as a result of this program. Though it is far below what we would like, we




                                                                                                 528
continue to monitor and encourage this as an employee benefit. We anticipate evaluating ways
we can continue to help fund new homeowners in the city.

U
We have not observed any significant changes in any of the areas that are affected by the
station areas at this time.




7.     Links to supporting documentation (Optional)
B

E

G

N

U




      Attachment to supporting documentation (Optional)
B

E
F_3itelPLmfgyYNhw
O24-26 Amending 17.48.040%2C 17.78.050%2C 17.78.090 RE Detached Accessory Dwelling
Units.pdf
818882
application/pdf

G

N

U




                                                                                            529
FEEDBACK & RECOMMENDATIONS
What types of support would be helpful to your community as you implement the
moderate income housing strategies? (Select all that apply)
Housing supply data,Housing needs data,Planning technical assistance,Model ordinances.,Staff
resources


Describe any recommendations on how the state can support the county or municipality
in implementing the moderate income housing strategies? (If none, please write N/A)
In the last legislative session, new menu items were included that Murray was looking forward to
adopting. Unfortunately, until the legislative session was over the city couldn't be sure exactly
what that entailed. By the time it was codified we did not have enough time to craft new
language and get it through the adoption process before reporting was due. Knowing that the
State Housing Plan will likely change the MIH in some way we likely won't take on those new
menu items until we see what happens in the next legislative session. Murray feels that there
needs to be a period where we are able to get the work done before large amendments are
made to the MIH reporting.


If your community has a fixed guideway transit station or is within 1/2 mile of a rail station, and is
required to adopt the Station Area Plan strategy, please ensure that you do the following:
1) Submit your approved station area plan to your applicable metropolitan planning organization
(Wasatch Front Regional Council or Mountainland Association of Governments). If they
determine that your station area plan is compliant with state code, they will provide your
community a written certification of compliance.
2) Provide us (HCD) with the certification of compliance, either by going back to the optional
attachment page earlier in this report OR emailing it to mih@utah.gov.
For more information on this requirement, see Utah Code 10-9a-403.1 Section (10).


Clicking the "Next" button at the bottom of the form will submit your report.




                                                                                                   530
