                              MEMORANDUM
                                     December 17, 2020


 To:         Planning Commission
 From:       Community Development Department
 Subject:    Pebble Hills Subdivision (Preliminary Review)                  SUB-11-20-5961
             1165 E. 8600 S.                                                    Zone: R-1-8
             [Community #6 – High Point]                                         2.97 Acres



HEARING NOTICE: This item has been noticed to property owners within 500 feet of the subject
                area.



                               PROPERTY CASE HISTORY
  Case Number                                    Case Summary
      79-7          Conditional Use Permit for an LDS Church
      80-9          Conditional Use Permit for an addition to LDS Church

DESCRIPTION OF REQUEST
The applicant, Castlewood Development, is requesting preliminary review for a 14-lot single
family subdivision. The applicant is also requesting the that the Residential Conservation
Overlay (RCO) Zone be applied to the subject property.

BACKGROUND & SITE CONDITIONS
The subject property currently houses a former LDS Church and adjoining parking lot, and
is approximately 2.97 acres in size. It is located in the R-1-8 zone and fronts onto 8600
South and also Fayeway Drive. The bordering properties to the west and south are single
family homes in the R-1-8 zone. The north side is bordered mostly by homes in the R-1-8
zone, but there is a small portion of single family homes that are under the jurisdiction of
Salt Lake County, as are all of the properties to the east of the proposed development.
Pebble Hills Subdivision – SUB-11-20-5961                                                   Page 2



NOTICE
Notices were mailed to property owners within a 500-foot radius of the subject property as per
Sandy City Land Development Code requirements, to notify them of the Planning Commission
meeting. A neighborhood meeting is scheduled for Monday, December 14, 2020. Resident
comments and concerns from this meeting will be presented to the Commission during staff’s
presentation to the Planning Commission.

SUBDIVISION ANALYSIS
The R-1-8 zone allows for single-family housing on lots with a minimum size of 8,000 square
feet. However, the applicant is requesting that the Residential Conservation Overlay Zone be
applied to this subdivision. The Overlay Zone allows lot sizes to be a minimum of 6,500 square
feet, if the lot sizes across the entire development average at least 7,500 square feet. On the
included preliminary plat, the smallest lot size is 6,502 square feet. The largest lot is 10,382
square feet, and the average lot size for the development as a whole is 7,839 square feet. A letter
from the applicant detailing their request and their eligibility for the RCO Zone is included with
this staff report.

Right-of-way dedication will be required by the Sandy City Public Works Department to ensure
that the City has a 41’ half width on 8600 S. and 26-foot half width along Fayeway Drive.

Residential Conservation Overlay Zone
In an effort to encourage water conservation, improve the long-term viability of planted street
trees, create a safer pedestrian walking environment, and allow greater flexibility in
subdivision design and lot layout, the Residential Conservation Overlay Zone was created to
promote development and redevelopment in Sandy City neighborhoods. The overlay zone is
intended to create efficient use of land by controlling the intensity of land use, providing
sufficient critical mass, and mass design features to create a walkable neighborhood.

A new development implementing the RCO may be located at infill locations where walkable
components (e.g., housing choices, convenience commercial, employment, community
facilities, transportation linkages, parks or other open spaces, schools, or churches) are already
present or planned. As a guiding principle, walkable components should be within a ten minute
(or one-half mile) walking distance.

By ordinance, the standard for eligibility for the RCO Zone is that the proposed development is
within one-half mile (walking distance) of at least five of the previously mentioned walkable
components. This development meets the criteria by being within walking distance of:

   •   Five Restaurants
   •   Three Churches
   •   Two Convenience Stores
   •   Numerous Retail Stores & Services
   •   Five Employment Opportunity Locations
   •   Two Schools
   •   Two Parks
Pebble Hills Subdivision – SUB-11-20-5961                                                             Page 3




The RCO Zone also allows a modification to the required setbacks. The differences are:

 Setback        R-1-8 Zone                         RCO Zone
 Front          25’ to Garage; 30’ to Living 10’ to Porch; 15’ to Living; 20 to Garage
 Side           8’ Min./ 16’ Combined              **6’ Min; 12’ Combined
 Rear           20’                                15’
** Side yard setback shall maintain the regular setback on the side that shares the side yard of existing
adjacent home, outside of this overlay zone.

Application of the RCO Zone also carries additional architectural and landscaping standards to
be adhered to by the developer/builder. These are outlined below:
Architecture
Architectural Standards. The treatment of buildings, materials, and exterior appurtenances
shall create an aesthetically pleasing dwelling and site that is in character with the proportions
of other surrounding structures, and yet provides diversity in design. An architectural balance
of building materials, colors, design features, and textures which create random compatibility
shall be sought. Requirements applicable to all dwellings and lots are as follows:

(1) The Planning Commission shall review and approve building elevations and materials for
all projects within a Residential Conservation Overlay Zone, particularly where exposed to
pedestrian and/or vehicular traffic.

(2) Basic building materials for all residential uses shall be predominantly one material of
brick, stone, or masonry. Limited amounts of stucco and composite or wood siding may be
considered if the quality of the design merits such consideration (no vinyl or aluminum siding
allowed).

(3) Buildings shall be designed to relate to grade conditions with a minimum of grading and
exposed foundation walls, creating easy pedestrian access from sidewalks, parking areas, etc.

(4) Front porches shall be added to the living area of dwellings and shall have a minimum
depth of five feet and shall comprise a minimum of 50 percent of the width of the building's
primary front facade (not including an attached garage). In no case shall the front porch be less
than 15 feet in width.

(5) Attached garages must be clearly subservient to front porches, by at least five feet.

(6) Sidewalk connections shall be made from front porches directly to street sidewalks.

(7) Dwelling footprints shall not occupy more than 50 percent of the lot, unless there is a three-
car garage, in which case the footprint shall not occupy more than 60 percent of the lot.
Pebble Hills Subdivision – SUB-11-20-5961                                                    Page 4




Landscaping

(a) On-Site Trees and Shrubs. All front yards shall be landscaped using trees, both evergreen
(six feet minimum) and deciduous, shrubs/bushes, and flowers. This landscaping shall be
bonded for at time of building permit.

(b) Street Trees. A minimum two-inch caliper street trees as measured six inches above grade
shall be installed by the developer/builder located between the curb and sidewalk along all
rights-of-way. In cases where there is not an eight-foot parkstrip, approved street trees shall be
planted three feet behind the sidewalk.

STAFF CONCERNS

Grading
There is a significant slope that runs across the entire property. The high point is at the southeast
corner of the development at the corner of 8600 S. and Fayeway Drive, and then slopes
downward toward the northwest property line. This impacts the elevation of the proposed cul-de-
sac road that accesses the interior of the development. The road has been designed to be at the
minimum elevation possible while still sufficiently handling drainage and sewer needs. Because
of this the sewer is very shallow and elevating the road even more would help with the sewer line
function. As currently proposed, the cul-de-sac will still be approximately 14 feet higher than the
lowest grade located at the northwest property line.

The future homes will, by necessity, be at different grades where each row of homes will sit at
different elevations. That means there will be some visual impact to the residences to the west
and north of this development, as well as to neighboring homes within the development itself.
Because the steepest proposed grade change is along the westernmost row of homes, it is likely
that houses with walkout basements will be the result. The homes will meet Sandy City’s 35-foot
height restriction, but the grade change may give the perception that it is more prominent. The
applicant has discussed possibly incorporating a rambler or two along the west property line,
especially on the northwest corner where the grade difference will be most noticeable. It is
important to note that this is not enforceable by the City, though the City will continue to
encourage the developer to find a way to use ramblers along the western boundary of the project.

Staff has asked the applicant to provide cross sections, showing existing and proposed grades,
from east to west and from north to south illustrating what the new homes would look like
through this development. The applicant has assured staff that the cross sections will be ready for
the scheduled neighborhood meeting, and for staff’s presentation at the Planning Commission
meeting. Should circumstances arise in which the cross sections are not prepared in time, then
staff recommends that the applicant come back to another Planning Commission meeting in the
future so that the Commission can visualize fully how the development will take shape prior to
making a decision.

Parkstrips
Pebble Hills Subdivision – SUB-11-20-5961                                                    Page 5


Sandy City ordinance strongly encourages that in situations where the Residential Conservation
Overlay Zone is applied that there be eight-foot parkstrips installed in exchange for the increased
flexibility granted to the developer for lot sizes. However, it does allow five-foot parkstrips with
five-foot sidewalks. The cul-de-sac road that provides access to the interior of the development
does incorporate eight-foot parkstrips for street tree planting. However, the applicant is
requesting a waiver to this eight-foot parkstrip standard for the portions of the development that
are adjacent to 8600 South and also Fayeway Drive. Their request letter is included with this
staff report. They will upgrade the sections of sidewalk that are currently only four feet wide to
meet the City’s five-foot wide standard. However, incorporating eight-foot parkstrips in these
locations would involve significant tapering of the sidewalk and would not maintain continuity
with the developments that are adjacent to it. Waiving the encouraged eight-foot parkstrip
standard and allowing five-foot sidewalks and parkstrips would maintain the continuity and
character of the surrounding neighborhood. The City Engineer has recommended that the
Planning Commission grant this waiver. His recommendation letter is also included with this
staff report.

Fayeway Drive
Currently, Fayeway Drive falls under the jurisdiction of Salt Lake County. This affects services
such as road maintenance, snow removal, and waste disposal. Staff has determined that the most
effective way to handle this is to annex the western half-width of Fayeway drive that is adjacent
to the east side of this development. The beginning processes to make this happen have begun in
coordination with Salt Lake County, but it still must receive a recommendation by the Planning
Commission, and a final decision by the City Council. The proposed annexation will come
before the Planning Commission in January of 2021 for a recommendation to the City Council.

Sewer Services
Currently two sewer districts serve this property. Midvalley Improvement District serves what
will be Lots 1-10 on the preliminary plat, whereas Cottonwood Improvement District serves Lots
11-14. The applicant will need to coordinate with the two sewer districts to ensure that they each
adjust their boundaries accordingly so that they follow the property line that divides the two sets
of lots mentioned above.

Building Architecture and Landscaping
The applicant, Castlewood Development, plans on building the homes themselves, rather than
selling the lots to another builder. They do not currently have architectural elevations for the
homes that may be built. For that reason, staff recommends (and has included as a condition of
approval) that enforcement of the architectural and landscaping guidelines be handled by staff
during the building permit process, with full architectural elevations and landscape plans
required to be submitted with each individual building permit.

The building materials and articulation are important to the integrity of the RCO. Each home
should be distinguishable from the next and have its own unique look. This does not mean the
same building plans cannot be used, but that through building materials and articulations, each
home will look different than the next. The same home plans should not be used on adjacent lots.

STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission determine that Preliminary Subdivision Review
is complete for the Pebble Hills Subdivision, located at 1165 E. 8600 S., based upon the
   Pebble Hills Subdivision – SUB-11-20-5961                                                 Page 6


   following findings and subject to the following conditions:

   Findings:
      1. That the proposed subdivision is an infill development.

      2. That the proposed lot configuration is an efficient use of the land.

      3. That the proposed lot sizes and frontages conform to the requirements of the Residential
         Conservation Overlay Zone.

      4. That the various City Departments and Divisions have preliminarily approved the
         proposed subdivision plat.



   Conditions:
      1. That the applicant complies with each department’s comments and redlines throughout
         the final review process and that all issues be resolved before the subdivision can be
         recorded.

      2. That all City provisions, codes and ordinances, including the standards of the RCO Zone,
         are adhered to during the review and construction of the development.

      3. That the applicant dedicate property along 8600 South and along Fayeway Drive as
         required by the Public Works Department during final review to Sandy City, and that all
         improvements be installed according to the requirements of Sandy City Public Works.

      4. That the applicant coordinates with the two sewer districts to ensure their boundaries are
         adjusted to follow the appropriate lot lines of the development.

      5. That the builder adheres to the architectural and landscaping standards of the RCO Zone,
         and submit full building elevations, (including labelling materials used), and a full
         landscaping plan when submitting for a building permit for each individual lot, unless the
         Planning Commission would rather have the developer come back for building elevations
         review at a future meeting.

      6. That the Planning Commission approve of the eight-foot parkstrip waiver along 8600 S.
         and Fayeway Drive, as recommended by the City Engineer.

      7. There is a retention pond (see Lot 5) that will need to be maintained by an HOA. During
         final review and prior to the plat being recorded, the applicant will need to provide
         documentation that an HOA has been formed to maintain this parcel.
         .



Planner: ___________________________            Reviewed by:___________________________
Craig Evans, Planner                            Brian McCuistion, Planning Director
