                                  MEMORANDUM
                                               April 30, 2020


 To:           Planning Commission
 From:         Community Development Department
 Subject:      Princeton Terrace Subdivision (Preliminary Review)                           SUB-10-19-5740
               8377 South 115 East                                                               5.13 Acres
               Community #3, Sandy Woods                                                           63 units


HEARING NOTICE: This item has been noticed to property owners within 500 feet of the subject area.



                                     PROPERTY CASE HISTORY
  Case Number                                    Case Summary
 SPR-07-04             Previous Master Plan for the East Town Village Project. Approved. This development was
                       split nearly in half with 232 units built in the Midvale side (nearly built out). The Sandy
                       half was approved for a Mixed-Use Master Plan by the Planning Commission on June 21,
                       2007. This included a total of 315 residential units and 20,580 sq. ft. of (commercial
                       office/retail) space to be built out in two phases. Only Phase 1 proceeded to Final approval
                       (granted on November 1, 2007). Phase 2 never progressed beyond preliminary review.
 SPR-3-10-1203         The developer was approved to revise their plans to a scaled down first phase of
                       development to include only 22 townhome units and the clubhouse. The rest of the
                       development was to be built out in multiple smaller phases. The last few townhomes of this
                       phase are nearing completion.
 SPR-4-13-2848         The Planning Commission approved a revision to the East Town Village Master Plan on
                       June 6, 2013. This revision allowed for a proposed apartment development on two-thirds
                       of the remaining undeveloped land of the original proposed site plan. The remaining one-
                       third of land is to be developed as originally proposed, which includes several stack flat
                       condominiums and will be part of the existing homeowner’s association.
 SPR-7-13-3055         The Planning Commission approved the architecture and site plan for the Altarra
                       Apartments at East Town Village and also granted a parking reduction for the project.
 SPR-12-14-4037        The approval given to the original Altarra Apartments (SPR-7-13-3055) expired so
                       application was made to bring the project back to the Planning Commission for their re-
                       approval. The Planning Commission approved the preliminary site plan on March 19, 2015.
 SPR-07-15-4501        The Planning Commission approved a site plan for the Pinnacle Sandy Apartments (aka
                       Axio) on August 20, 2015 for 331 apartment units.
 SPR-08-18-5472        The commercial frontage along State Street was approved for a two 2-story buildings
                       (20,790 sq. ft. of office and retail space). This was approved by the Planning Commission
                       on December 6, 2018.
Princeton Terrace Subdivision – SPR-10-19-5740                                            Page - 2 -


REQUEST
Mr. Charles Akerlow of Zenith Development has submitted an application for a preliminary
subdivision plat review of a proposed development called Princeton Terrace. This land
(approximately 5.13 acres) is to be subdivided into 63 units (12.28 units/acre) and establish
common, limited common, and private areas of the development. Those common areas will be
maintained by a Home Owners Association (HOA).

BACKGROUND
The proposed project is located on the northern border of Sandy City along Durham and 115 East
Street. It is mostly zoned Mixed Use (MU), with about an acre on the southern end being R-1-
7.5(HS). It is borded by the East Town Village condominium project to the north and the Axio
Apartments to the west. All of these developments are zoned Mixed Use (MU). To the south, are
residential homes zoned R-1-7.5(HS). To the east, the property is borded by UTA Trax lines.
Further to the east are residential properties with varies zoning (R-2-10, R-2-8, PUD(8), R-1-8,
& R-1-7.5(HS)).

NOTICE
Notices were mailed to property owners within a 500-foot radius of the subject parcel to notify
them of the Planning Commission meeting. The applicant also held a neighborhood meeting on
August 7, 2019. There were several questions and concerns raised during the meeting. A full
report from the meeting is attached to this report.

ANALYSIS
This plat will amend the existing Lots 1, 2, and 3 of the East Town Village-Sandy Plat. It would
remove the existing property lines, amend several easements, establish a total of sixty-three (63)
residential units, and delineate common and limited common area in a PUD style plat. These
units are oriented to one of six (6) proposed pedestrian streets (mews) and serviced with a series
of alleys for vehicular access. Where units front the public street, these are to be oriented to that
street. The plat will need to be further updated to reflect this developmetn pattern.

CONCERNS
Staff has the following concerns regarding this proposal as submitted by the applicant:

   1. Pedestrian Mews. These units are to be accessed from pedestrian streets, and served by
      vehicular alleys. The alleys should not be named and only be shown as part of the
      common area or cross access or public utility easements.
   2. Shared Access. A shared access easement and approval to improve the property of the
      East Town Village HOA will need to be obtained. Some of the East Town Village parking
      stalls are partially built on the subject property as well. This agreement will need to be
      reflected on the plat.
   3. Relocation of Easements. Several existing easements are shown to impact the proposed
      unit locations, in particular the sewer easement. Staff will need formal releases of those
      easements to be recorded in conjunction with the recordation of the plat.
   4. Public Road Dedication. There appears to be a disagreement with the location of the
      public road 115 East between this proposed plat and the previous East Town Village Plat.
      This will need to be resolved and possibly dedicate additional right-of-way to resolve
      this concern.
Princeton Terrace Subdivision – SPR-10-19-5740                                                         Page - 3 -


STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission find that the preliminary subdivision review is
complete for the proposed Princeton Terrace Subdivision, located at approximately 8377 South
115 East, based upon the following conditions:

Conditions:

    1. That the applicant complies with each department’s comments and redlines throughout
       the final review process and that all issues be resolved before the subdivision can be
       recorded.

    2. That all City provisions, codes and ordinances are adhered to during the review,
       construction and operations process of this project.

    3. That a special exception be approved for all units within the subdivision without public
       frontage, but are accessed via private pedestrian mews.

    4. That a note be included on the plat stating that all common space, including the private
       alleys, and limited common areas shall be maintained by the subdivision HOA.

    5. That the pedestrian mews be named as streets (as approved by Salt Lake County) and
       given intersection coordinates. All units are to be addressed from those mews or public
       street that they front.

    6. Shared access easement with the East Town Village HOA will need to be recorded prior
       to or in conjunction with the recordation of the plat.

    7. That all existing easements that are currently shown to impact the proposed unit
       locations be resolved prior to the recordation of the plat.

    8. That any additional road dedication as determined necessary by staff be shown with this
       plat. That any disagreement regarding the location of the public road (115 East) between
       this proposed plat and the previous East Town Village Plat be resolved prior to final staff
       approval of the plat.


Planner:




Mike Wilcox
Zoning Administrator

File Name: S:\USERS\PLN\STAFFRPT\2019\SUB-10-19-5740_PRINCETON TERRACE SUBDIVISION\STAFF REPORT.DOCX
