                             MEMORANDUM
                                         May 14, 2020


 To:         Planning Commission
 From:       Community Development Department
 Subject:    Solar Carports - Proposed Amendment to the                      CODE-04-20-5845
             SD(Harada) Zone
             Amend Title 21, Chapter 19 – Special Development (SD)
             Districts, Section 14 – SD(Harada), of the Sandy
             Municipal Code


HEARING NOTICE: This item has been noticed on public websites, and in the newspaper at least
                10 days prior to the Public Hearing.



                                   PROPERTY CASE HISTORY
    Case Number                                   Case Summary
  Ord#96-10            On April 16, 1996 the SD(Harada) zone was created (approved by City
                       Council) to accommodate the annexation of the land associated with the
                       Overlook at Union Point subdivision.
  S#96-27              Overlook at Union Point subdivision was approved as a commercial
                       subdivision.
  S#01-06              On May 3, 2001 the Planning Commission approved the Overlook at
                       Union Point Amended Plat. This action divided the existing lot 3 into two
                       lots – lot 3A and 3B.
  SPR-10-15-4708       Union Creek Office buildings and a related amended plat to create a new
  SUB-10-15-4707       commercial lot were approved to develop a new office building during
                       the December 5, 2015 Planning Commission meeting.

REQUEST
Intermountain Wind and Solar, representing the property owner (Dr. Kirk Moore with Lago
Maggiore-Union Creek, LLC) that owns a parcel within the area zoned SD(Harada), has submitted an
application for a code amendment to the existing SD(Harada) Special Development District. The
proposal would amend Title 21, Chapter 19 – Special Development (SD) Districts, Section 14 –
SD(Harada), of the Sandy Municipal Code. The existing SD Zone affects approximately 23.49 acres
Solar Carports - SD(Harada) Code Amendment – CODE-04-20-5845                                  Page - 2 -


                                                     located at along Union Park Avenue (see zoning
                                                     map). The proposed code change would allow for
                                                     the office building to have carports built where
                                                     the current code would prohibit.

                                                     BACKGROUND
                                                     In 1996, the SD(Harada) Zone was developed
                                                     specifically for this site and is not used in any
                                                     other location (See Figure 1 – Zoning Map). The
                                                     purpose of this SD Zone is expressed in the code:

                                                     Sec. 21-19-14. - SD(Harada)—7575 S. Union
                                                     Park Avenue.
                                                     (a)    Purpose. The purpose of this zone is to
                                                     provide an area of professional and business
                                                     offices, non-retail services, restaurants, and other
                                                     uses not including merchandising, warehousing,
                                                     and manufacturing, with business hours consistent
                                                     with those of contiguous property. Developments
                                                     shall have architecture that is compatible with
                                                     residential uses. All site plans for proposed
                                                     development shall be reviewed and approved by the
                                                     Planning Commission.
Figure 1 - Zoning Map

ANALYSIS
The Planning Commission must review the following criteria when considering a requested Code
Amendment:

Is the change reasonably necessary?
Is it in the public interest?
Is it in harmony with the objectives and purposes of the future development of Sandy City?
Is the change consistent with the General Plan?

The applicant’s request letter does not state how the requested code amendments meet these
criteria. Staff believes that the intent of the proposed amendment meets the criteria mentioned
above. Their request can be viewed in context of this section of code in Exhibit “A” (changes shown
in red). Their application also includes a conceptual site plan indicating where they would like to
place these solar carports in relation to the recently constructed office building (see Figure 2). These
locations would not be approved as these structures do not meet the minimum setbacks for the zone.
These are shown to be placed with a five-foot (5’) setback on the north side and a zero (0) setback on
the rear property line (east side).

While staff agrees with the intent of their request, the language of the proposed amendment could be
simplified and modified to make it consistent with best practices and in harmony with other sections
of the Land Development Code. Staff’s recommended version can be found in in Exhibit “B” (changes
shown in red).

Carports are regulated as accessory structures in section 21-11-2(b), Nonresidential Standards. A
solar carport would be not be considered “ground mounted” but would be considered “attached to
the building” and be regulated as such in section 21-11-22 – Solar Equipment.
Solar Carports - SD(Harada) Code Amendment – CODE-04-20-5845                                       Page - 3 -




Figure 2 - Conceptual Site Plan - Solar Carports Shown in Blue

Staff believes that our proposed code change in Exhibit “B” would satisfy the intent of the applicant’s
request and allow them to construct the solar carports as they desire. It is important to note that
these proposed changes will not change any requirements of the building code.

NON-CONFORMING USES
This Code Amendment would not create any non-conforming use situations.

LAND DEVELOPMENT CODE PURPOSE COMPLIANCE
The Sandy City Land Development Code in 21-1-3 lists the criteria explaining the intent and
purpose of the Ordinance. The purpose is:

Sec. 21-1-3. - Purpose and Scope.

(a)    Purpose. The ordinance from which this title is derived is adopted to implement the Sandy City's
      General Plan and to promote public health, safety, convenience, aesthetics, and welfare; efficient use
      of land; sustainable land use and building practices; transportation options and accessibility; crime
      prevention; timely citizen involvement in land use decision making; and efficiency in development
      review and land use administration. Specifically, this title is established to promote the following
      purposes:
      (1)   General.
            a.   To facilitate the orderly growth and development of Sandy City.
            b.   To facilitate adequate provision for transportation, water, sewage, schools, parks, and other
                 public requirements.
            c.   To stabilize property values.
            d.   To enhance the economic well-being of Sandy City and its inhabitants.
      (2)    Implementation of General Plan. To coordinate and ensure the implementation of the City's
            General Plan through effective execution of development review requirements, adequate facility
            and services review and other goals, policies, or programs contained in the General Plan.
      (3)    Comprehensive, Consistent and Equitable Regulations. To establish a system of fair,
            comprehensive, consistent and equitable regulations, standards and procedures for review and
            approval of all proposed land development within the City.
Solar Carports - SD(Harada) Code Amendment – CODE-04-20-5845                                        Page - 4 -


     (4)     Efficiently and Effectively Managed Procedures.
            a.   To promote fair procedures that are efficient and effective in terms of time and expense.
            b.   To be effective and responsive in terms of the allocation of authority and delegation of powers
                 and duties among ministerial, appointed, and elected officials.
            c.   To foster a positive customer service attitude and to respect the rights of all applicants and
                 affected citizens.


GENERAL PLAN COMPLIANCE
The General Plan encourages appropriate development standards for all uses and zoning categories
within Sandy City. This code amendment would further that goal and objective. The proposed Code
Amendment will facilitate the orderly growth and development of Sandy City. These regulations
would help promote the health, safety, and welfare of our residents.

STAFF RECOMMENDATIONS
The Community Development Department requests that the Planning Commission forward a positive
recommendation to the City Council to adopt the proposed ordinance amendment as shown in
Exhibit “B”, attached, for the following reasons:

1.         The proposal complies with the Purpose of the Land Development Code as stated in section
           21-1-03.

2.         Compliance with the Goals and Policies of the General Plan by establishing appropriate
           development standards for all uses and zoning categories within Sandy City.


Planner:




Mike Wilcox
Zoning Administrator

File Name: S:\USERS\PLN\STAFFRPT\2020\CODE-04-20-5845_CARPORTS IN THE SD(HARADA) ZONE\STAFF REPORT.DOCX
