SANDY CITY COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT

JAMES SORENSEN
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
DIRECTOR

KURT BRADBURN
MAYOR

MATTHEW HUISH
CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER

MEMORANDUM
February 6, 2020

To:       Planning Commission
From:     Community Development Department
Subject:  Enterprise Rent-A-Car                                    CUP-11-19-5759
          10710 S. State St                                        Zone: AM (Commercial)
          [Community #9-Commercial Area]

HEARING NOTICE: This item has been noticed to property owners within 500 feet of the
subject area.

PROPERTY CASE HISTORY
Case Number  |  Case Summary
             |  SEE CASE HISTORY IN SITE PLAN REVIEW STAFF REPORT

DESCRIPTION OF REQUEST AND BACKGROUND
The applicant, Matthew Mraz, representing Enterprise Rent-A-Car, is requesting that the
Planning Commission review and approve a Conditional Use to operate a automotive rental and
leasing agency in the AM Commercial zoning district.(Exhibit 1- Application Materials) An
associated staff report addresses the commercial Site Plan Review. The Planning Commission is
the land use approval body for this CUP action, as designated in the Sandy City Land
Development Code.

BACKGROUND
The building is located on a 0.76 acre lot on the west side of State Street between Motor Park
Ave. and 10600 S. The property is currently owned by Harmon Management Group and the
previous soda shop tenants have already vacated the site. Currently the building contains 2973
square feet and the proposed conversion will decrease the size of the building to 2769 square
feet by removing the cold storage area which was necessary for the prior food use. The
conversion will involve creating a manual car wash bay, a reception area, an office, a break
room, a restroom, and a storage area. This conversion will not increase the building footprint
and will not require additional parking.

10000 Centennial Parkway   |   Sandy, Utah 84070   |   p: 801.568.7250   |   f: 801.568.7278   |   sandy.utah.gov

---

Enterprise Rent-A-Car:  CUP-11-19-5759                            Page 2

NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING
No neighborhood meeting was required for this project.

CONDITIONAL USE ANALYSIS

Conditional Use consideration for a rental car agency land use in the AM (Commercial)
Zoning District. Under the Sandy City Development Code, the Planning Commission, through
the Conditional Use process, can: approve Conditional Uses if no mitigation of reasonably
anticipated detrimental impacts is necessary; approve Conditional Uses, subject to reasonable
conditions designed to mitigate or eliminate reasonably anticipated detrimental impacts; or deny
Conditional Uses, if it is determined that reasonably anticipated detrimental impacts cannot be
adequately mitigated. The burden of mitigating these impacts or effects is the responsibility of
the applicant and not of the municipality or adjacent property owners (Section 21-33).

Compliance with Section 21-33-04 Conditional Use Permit:
In order to achieve compliance with the standards set forth herein, the City may impose
conditions that address these standards:

1.  Size, configuration and location of the site and the proposed site plan layout.

The layout is properly designed and located. The site is adequately sized for the proposed
conversion.

2.  Proposed site ingress and egress to existing and proposed roads and streets.

The ingress and egress to and from the site will be adequate for use by this facility.

3.  The adequacy, provision, relocation or protection of public facilities and amenities,
including roads and street, culinary water, secondary water, sanitary sewer, storm drainage,
public safety and fire protections, and other utilities.

All of these public facilities either presently exist at the site and are functioning, or are proposed
to be improved and expanded by the proposed site improvements. These public facilities will
not be detrimentally impacted by the proposed Conditional Use of the property.

4.  Design, location and amount of off-street parking, loading areas and solid waste disposal
and collection areas.

Adequate vehicle parking will be provided by the proposed parking on the site, as per the Sandy
City Development Code.

5.  Site circulation patterns for vehicular, pedestrian and other traffic.

Site circulation will be sufficient for the use as designed on the site plan.

---

Enterprise Rent-A-Car:  CUP-11-19-5759                            Page 3

6.  Mass, size, number, location, design, exterior features, materials, and colors of buildings,
structures and other facilities.

The building design, materials, and colors meet the zoning requirements and the Sandy City
Architectural Design standards, and staff has reviewed the design and has recommended
approval by the Planning Commission as part of the site plan review.

7.  The location and design of all site features, including proposed signage, lighting, and
refuse collection.

This standard will be met. Site signage is not included in this review, but must be considered
and reviewed by separate future application.

8.  The provision of useable open space, public features, and recreational amenities.

This standard is not applicable.

9.  Fencing, screening and landscape treatments, and other features designed to increase the
attractiveness and safety of the site and protect adjoining owners from noise, visual and other
impacts.

No additional landscaping or screening is required for the proposed conversion.

10.  Measures directed at minimizing or eliminating possible nuisance factors including, but
not limited to noise, vibrations, smoke, dust, dirt, debris, plant materials, odors, gases, noxious
matter, heat, glare, electromagnetic disturbances, and radiation.

This facility will be subject to the noise limits imposed by the County Health Department.
There will not be any unusual vibration, smoke, dust, and debris or plant materials nuisance
factors after development of the building and site. Noise impact will not create a nuisance
because the site does not abut residential zoning or residential uses.

11.  Measures designed to protect the natural features of the site, including wetlands and
drainage ways, ground water protection, soils, wildlife and plant life.

This standard is not generally applicable.

12.  The regulation of operating hours for activities affecting normal schedules and functions;
The applicants are not requesting extended business hours.

13.  Identifying a time for regular review and monitoring as determined necessary, to ensure
the use continues to operate in compliance with all conditions and requirements of approval.

The conditional use will be reviewable upon legitimate complaint, and any new impacts arising
can then be addressed by the Planning Commission, through the imposition of additional
mitigating measures.

---

Enterprise Rent-A-Car:  CUP-11-19-5759                            Page 4

14.  Measures to ensure compliance with all conditions and requirements of approval
including but not limited to bonds, letters of credit, improvement agreements, the agreements to
conditions, road maintenance funds, and restrictive covenants.

Measures to ensure compliance will be enforced by the Sandy City staff through normal plan
review finalization, project performance guarantee bonding and upon citizen complaint or staff
observance of non-compliance and will be adequate to mitigate potential violations of approval
conditions.

15.  Such other conditions determined reasonable and necessary by the City to allow the
operation of the proposed conditional use, at the proposed location in compliance with the
requirements of this Code.

To mitigate any potential negative impacts to the City and the neighborhood, staff suggest the
conditions listed at the bottom of this report, 1 to 3.

CONCERNS
Staff has no concerns.

STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission grant the Conditional Use request to allow the
requested automotive rental and leasing agency land use, based on the staff report, the staff
findings 1 to 15 in the above analysis of the Conditional Use Standards and the two additional
findings listed below and subject to the following three conditions:

FINDINGS:
    A. That the various City Departments and Divisions, including the City Engineer and the
       Transportation Engineer, have preliminarily approved the proposed related site plan.

    B. That the proposed rental car agency land use request has been reviewed by staff
       considering the 15 standards contained in the Sandy City Development Code, 21-33-04,
       Conditional Use Process, and appropriate and adequate mitigation measures will be
       implemented or will be imposed as deemed necessary to minimize impacts to the
       surrounding business community, subject to the following conditions.

CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL:

    1. That the applicant proceed through final site plan approval with staff as required by the
       Sandy City Development Code.

    2. That the Conditional Use Permit for a rental car agency be reviewed upon future
       legitimate citizen complaint or staff observation of non-compliance with conditions.

---

Enterprise Rent-A-Car:  CUP-11-19-5759                            Page 5

    3. That the applicant be responsible to meet all provisions of the Sandy City Development
       Code and all conditions of approval that are included in this report and as may be
       imposed by the Planning Commission to mitigate the reasonably anticipated detrimental
       effects of the proposed use.

Planner: [signature] Claire Hague, Zoning Technician        Reviewed by: [initials]
S:\USERS\PLN\STAFFRPT\2019\CUP-11-19-5759 Enterprise Rent-A-Car

---

Enterprise Rent-A-Car:  CUP-11-19-5759                            Page 6

                    Exhibit #1 – Application Materials

[remainder of page blank]

---

[Page 7 of PDF]

[Enterprise logo]
Rent-A-Car Division
7144 S. State Street
Midvale, UT 84047
801-736-7300
enterprise.com

10/16/2019

Sandy City Community Development
Planning Department
1000 Centennial Parkway
Sandy UT 84070

Dear Sandy City Community Development:

Enterprise Rent a Car Company of UT LLC, would like to open a retail rental operation on the
property located at 10710 S. State Street, Sandy UT 84070. Enterprise Rent a Car is in the business
of automobile rental. This facility would operate Monday – Friday from 7:30 AM to 6:00 PM,
Saturday 9:00 AM to 1:00 PM and potentially Sunday 9:00 AM to 12:00 PM. This facility would
house a retail rental office, a bucket wash bay and parking for rental vehicles, employees and
customers.

Sincerely,

[signature]
Enterprise Rent a Car Company of UT LLC
Matt Mraz

Group Property Development and Facilities Manager

RECEIVED
NOV 06 2019
SANDY CITY
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT

---

Enterprise Rent-A-Car:  CUP-11-19-5759                            Page 7

                    Exhibit #2 – Site Plan

[remainder of page blank]

---

[Page 9 of PDF]
[map/plat page 9 — no text] (aerial site plan / grading plan drawing, dated 1/15/20)
Legible labels: "SITE PLAN/GRADING"; "ENTERPRISE RENT-A-CAR"; "epic"; "PERMIT";
sheet "C1.0"; "WARNING CALL BLUE STAKES"; "STATE STREET"; "GRAPHIC SCALE";
"NEW ASPHALT"; "CONCRETE TO BE REMOVED";
owner block "OWNER: HARMON MANAGEMENT CORP / ADDRESS: 10710 S. STATE ST /
PARCEL NO. 2713-427558-0000 / ZONE: AM";
numerous construction annotations (e.g. "PROPERTY LINE", "PROPERTY SETBACK",
"EXISTING BUILDING FOOTPRINT 2769 SF", "NEW ADA PARKING STALLS",
"NEW ADA ACCESSIBLE RAMPS", "EXISTING SD MANHOLE", "REMOVE EXISTING
CONCRETE PAD", "INSTALL NEW CONCRETE CURB WALL", "MATCH ELEV. TO
EXISTING ASPHALT", "FUTURE CROSS ACCESS", "EXISTING WATER METER",
"EX SIGN", "EX FIRE HYDRANT", clear-view triangle notes — several dimensions and
notes illegible)
