                                           ARTICLE V
                                        ORGANIZATION
A.      Members. The Commission is comprised of the Members that are signatory to this
Agreement which include, as of __ ______ 2020 (the effective date of the first amendment to
this Agreement), Town of Alta, city of Cottonwood Heights, City of Millcreek, Park City, Salt Lake
City, Salt Lake County, Sandy City, and Summit County. Additional Members (“Additional
Members”) may be added to the Commission pursuant to the following minimum criteria and
process:
       (1)     Minimum Criteria. The minimum criteria for membership in the CWC are as
follows:
              (a)  Each Additional Member shall be a governmental entity located in Salt
Lake County or Summit County, Utah; and
             (b)    Each Additional Member shall have a common border with the boundary
of the Commission specified in this Agreement or have legal jurisdiction within such boundary;
and
              (c)    Except for Salt Lake County, which may have two Commissioners as
specified below, no Member shall have more than one Commissioner representing it on the
Board.
       (2)     Process. The process for adding Additional Members to the Commission is as
follows:
                (a)    Upon receipt of a written application from the governing body of a
proposed new Additional Member which complies with the minimum criteria specified in Article
V.A.(1) (the “Minimum Criteria”), the Board may consider such application in public meetings
occurring over such timeframe as the Board, in its sole discretion, may deem reasonable and
appropriate under the circumstances.

                  (b)     The Board’s consideration of the application of such proposed new
Additional Member shall be based on the the Minimum Criteria and such additional criteria as
the Board, in its sole discretion, may deem reasonable and appropriate under the circumstances.

               (c)     Following such consideration, the Board shall vote whether to offer
Commission membership to the proposed new Additional Member. If a majority of the Board
does not affirmatively vote to offer Commission membership to the proposed new Additional
Member, then the proposed new Additional Member’s application for membership shall be
deemed denied and that proposed new Additional Member shall be barred from re-applying for
membership for a period of one year after such denial.

               (d)    If a majority of the Board affirmatively votes to offer Commission
membership to the proposed new Additional Member, then the proposed new Additional
Member’s application for membership shall be deemed provisionally approved, subject to:
                      (i) Approval of the proposed new Additional Member by the legislative
body of each of the Members; and

                        (ii) Approval of this Agreement, as previously amended and/or
restated, by resolution of the governing body of the proposed new Additional Member; and

                       (iii) The proposed new Additional Member’s execution and delivery to
the Board of a counterpart of the then-current version of this Agreement.
 provided in Article V.B.(3). To become a Member, the governing body of each proposed
additional Member must also approve this Agreement by resolution and the proposed Member
then shall execute and deliver a counterpart of this Agreement.


B.     Board.
       (1)      Appointments of Member Commissioners.

               (a)      The Mayor or the governing body, as appropriate to the Member’s form of
government as created by the Laws of Utah 1977, Chapter 48, of each Member shall appoint an
elected public official from their respective entity to serve as a Commissioner.

             (b)    The Salt Lake County Council shall appoint an At-Large County Council
Member to represent the interests of the greater Salt Lake County.
               (c)      Each Member Commissioner shall serve until his or her tenure as an
elected public official of the sponsoring Member terminates, until his or her successor is duly
appointed by the sponsoring Member, or until his or her sponsoring Member withdraws from
the Commission, whichever occurs first. A vacancy on the Board shall be filled in the same manner
as the appointment of the Member Commissioner whose vacancy is being filled.
        (2)   Ex Officio Appointed Commissioners. Ex officio Additional Commissioners (“Ex
Officio Commissioners”) representing non-Member governmental entities with specialized
expertise may who do not represent a specific Member entity may also be appointed by to the
Board resolution to provide input pertinent to the CWC’s goals or objectives. To that end, an Ex
Officio Commissioner may participate in Board discussions but, as provided below, may not vote
on any Commission matters.
                (a)   pursuant to the process provided in Article V.B.(3) as follows.

No more than four Ex Officio Commissioners may serve at any time.The Members shall appoint
a Commissioner to represent the interests of the portion of the Project Area located to the East
of the Wasatch Range (ie., the so-called “Wasatch Back”). Park City and Summit County may
jointly nominate an elected or appointed public official for appointment by the Board for this
Appointed Commissioner.
The Members shall appoint a Commissioner to represent the interests of the Utah Department
of Transportation.


               (b)     The term of service of an Ex Officio Commissioner shall be the lesser of one
year or as specified in the appointing resolution; provided that an Ex Officio Commissioner may
be freely re-appointed by Board resolution from time to time.

                 (c)  An Ex Officio Commissioner may be removed at any time upon majority
vote of all of the Member Commissioners then serving on the Board.
       (3)     Procedure for Approving Additional Members and Appointed Commissioners.

               (a)    The appointment of any additional Member or Appointed Commissioner
requires:

                      (i)     A majority vote of all Commissioners then serving on the Board;
and

                      (ii)    Approval by the legislative body of each of the Members.

         (4)    Tenure. Each Commissioner shall serve until his or her tenure as an elected or
appointed public official (as applicable) terminates, until his or her successor is duly appointed
by the sponsoring Member or the Board (as applicable), or until his or her sponsoring Member
(if any) withdraws from the Commission, whichever occurs first. A vacancy on the Board shall be
filled in the same manner as the appointment of the Commissioner whose vacancy is being filled.
       (5)     Compensation and Expenses of Commissioners. Commissioners may not receive
compensation or benefits for their service on the Board, but may receive per diem and
reimbursement for travel expenses incurred as a Board member at the rates established by the
State of Utah, Division of Finance.
      (46) Open Meetings Act. Board meetings are subject to the Utah Open and Public
Meetings Act, UTAH CODE ANN. 52-4-101 et seq. (the “Open Meetings Act”). An Ex Officio
Commissioner’s presence in or absence from a meeting of the Board or any other CWC public
body shall not contribute—for or against—to the existence of a quorum of the Board or such
body under any applicable law.

C.   Officers. Bi-annually, the Commissioners shall elect from among the Member
Commissioners their membership a Chair, a Co-Chair, a Secretary and a Treasurer.
D.     Voting.
       (1)    A Member Commissioner may not delegate the right to vote on Commission
matters to any designee; provided, however, that a Member Commissioner may send a non-
voting designee to Commission meetings for the purpose of gathering information for and
expressing the viewpoint of the designee’s Member Commissioner. The Board shall, however,
adopt a written protocol for electronic meetings as authorized in the Utah Open and Public
Meetings Act.
     (2)  All actions of the Commission require approval of at least a majority vote of all
Member Commissioners then serving on the Board.
      (3)    Ex Officio Commissioners may not vote on any Commission matters.
