SANDY CITY COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT

JAMES SORENSEN
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
DIRECTOR

KURT BRADBURN
MAYOR

MATTHEW HUISH
CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER

MEMORANDUM
November 10, 2020

To:       Planning Commission
From:     Community Development Department
Subject:  Towne Ridge Retail Pads "B" and "C" Preliminary Site      SPR-08-20-5886
          Plan Review                                                2.37 Acres
          9680 and 9710 S. State Street                             CBD Zone
          [Community #2, Civic Center]

HEARING NOTICE:  This item has been noticed to property owners within 500 feet of the subject
                 area, by U.S. Mail delivery.

PROPERTY CASE HISTORY
CASE NUMBER       CASE SUMMARY
S#98-38           South Town Ridge Subdivision, Commercial, approved 1998. Recorded
                  Plat, later amended.
SPR-01-15-4111    WCF Master Plan, Commercial Development, approved 2015.
SUB-3-16-5012     Towne Ridge Commercial Subdivision, approved 2016. Recorded Plat.
SPR-04-17-4561    DoDo Restaurant site plan review, approved 2017. Project never built,
                  later withdrawn.

REQUEST
Sterling Realty Organization, of Seattle, Washington, property owners, represnted by Mr. Chris
Jensen, Architect, of THINK Architecture, of Sandy, Utah, are requesting preliminary site plan
review for two new, multi-user retail commercial buildings, one on each of the two "Pad Site"
lots approved in the Towne Ridge Commercial Subdivision in 2016. The two commercial
subdivision lots are located at 9680 and 9710 S. State Street and are zoned Central Business
District (CBD) and the lots also are located within the Cairns downtown development district.
Pad lot "B" is proposed to have a commercial shell building of 8,097 square feet and Pad Lot "C"
is proposed to have a commercial shell building of 8,113 square feet. Both buildings will be single
story, slab on grade structures. Also requested is architectural design review for the building
design, materials and colors for the new buildings and review of the buildings and the site plans

10000 Centennial Parkway  |  Sandy, Utah 84070  |  p: 801.568.7250  |  f: 801.568.7278  |  sandy.utah.gov

---

Towne Ridge Retail Pad Sites Site Plan Review      SPR-08-20-5886      Page - 2 -

under the new Cairns Design Standards. The Planning Commission is the land-use authority for
these requested actions.

BACKGROUND
Sterling Realty Organization has purchased the Towne Ridge Towers Office buildings (now
occupied by NICE-inContact), the large parking structure located to the south of the office towers
and these two vacant retail pad lots from the Worker's Compensation Fund (WCF) as long term
investment properties. These properties front the west side of State Street, directly south and
west of the Mountain America Exposition Center. Preparatory to WCF's master development
plan approval, during the winter of 2014-15 the WCF developers obtained permission from the
Jordan and Salt Lake Canal Company (Salt Lake City Public Utilities Department) to relocate the
canal and place it in a 10 foot by 20 foot concrete box culvert, which traverses the two
commercial pad site lots south to north from Albion Village to Towne Ridge Parkway. This
buried canal structure limits the building location options, utility routing, as well as the overall
site grading of the property.

Staff has been working with the developer's project design team since August, 2020.
Intermediate designs for the project were reviewed by the Sandy City Architectural Design
Review Committee at a meeting held on August 26, 2020. Since that meeting, staff has been
working with the developers and their design team to address the project under the new Cairns
Design Standards document, which was adopted by the City in December, 2018. This was after
the approval of the WCF master development plan, Towne Ridge Commercial Subdivision, and
the construction of the Towne Ridge office towers to the west.

NOTICE
Notices were mailed to property owners within a 500-foot radius of the subject parcel to notify
them of the Planning Commission meeting. A neighborhood meeting was not held for this project
due to the project's location and the longstanding CBD zoning.

ANALYSIS
This project is being considerd under three sets of regulations: (1) the CBD zoning district and
the requirements of Chapters 21-08, 21-23, 21-24, and 21-25 of the Sandy City Development
Code; (2) The Sandy City Architectural Design Standards; and (3) The Cairns Design Standards.

The Towne Ridge Commercial Subdivision caused the basic infrastructure for these two lots to
be constructed in 2017. This site plan approval, therefore does not have to address street
dedication, street access, overall utility availablilty, etc. The project has been extensively
reviewed by all of the normal reviewing Sandy City Departments and Divisions, and all
recommend approval of the project by the Planning Commission, subject to their usual
requirements and conditions. These requirements and conditions will be fully incorporated into
the project plans and agreements during final site plan review and building and other life safety
code reviews, by staff.

Zoning Review. The project will meet all of the requirements of the CBD zoning district and the
Sandy City Development code. Parking for these two retail pads will be provided on each site,
with any additional required parking or excess parking (based upon the exact land use categories
of the leased space being constructed as a shell building) being met in the adjacent large parking
structure, under the existing Towne Ridge Commercial project's shared parking agreement.

---

Towne Ridge Retail Pad Sites Site Plan Review      SPR-08-20-5886      Page - 3 -

Restaurants with Drive-up Windows in the CBD. Generally, drive-up windows and drive-thru
queuing lanes are discouraged within the CBD, and therefore, are listed as "Conditional Uses" in
the land use matrix contained in Sandy City Development Code Chapter 21-08. As this project is
to construct two shell commercial buildings, future tenant land uses will be determined at the
time of lease negoiations with the owner. However, the owners are desirious of making one
drive-up window based restaurant user a probability in each of the two building. Therefore the
site plan shows one drive-up window future location on the north end of each building, with
queuing lanes located between the proposed buildings and State Street. (See separate
Conditional Use application #CUP-11-20-5958 to consider the Conditional Use review for these
properties on this agenda.)

The drive-up windows and the resultant queuing lanes have been the major discussion and issue
point between the planning staff and the devloper and his design team from the beginning of this
project. With the 2018 adoption of the Cairns Design Standards, Sandy City has embarked upon
a new development pattern goal and ethos for the properties within the Cairns downtown
development district. This will be the first drive-up windows considered by Sandy City during
site plan review, since the adoption of the Cairn's Design Standards, and only the third project
reviewed by the City under "Cairns". As such, staff wanted to find ways to allow a transitioning
in site design that could accommodate the owner's desire to have drive-up window based
restaurants be a part of this project, but minimize the visual impact along State Street from the
queuing lanes, and waiting vehicles dominating the space between the pedestrian realm along
State Street and the "front"yards" of the buildings. A secondary consideration of the drive-up
window queuing lanes was how they might "go away" in the future, if and when the Cairns
district transitions to a more pedestrain dominated development area.

Architectural Design Review. The building's design, materials and colors were reviewed by
the Sandy City Architectural Design Review Committee in a meeting held on August 26, 2020.
(Please see the attached agenda and minutes from that meeting.) The committee unanimously
recommended to the Planning Commission that this project be approved. The only issue of
concern for the committee was the use of the "reclaimed wood" siding on a portion of the
buildings' exterior. The committee questioned its use in our climate, as to degredation in
appearance over time.

Review Under the new Cairns Design Standards. This is only the third project to be reviewed
under the new Cairns Design Standards, since the adoption of the regulation in December, 2018.
Both the standards and the process is new to everyone: staff, Planning Commission and the
development design professionals. The standards have been crafted to look comprehensivley at
the proposed building, land uses and the site planning, based upon the type of public street that
the project is located upon.
The Cairns Design Standards document, in association with The Cairns Master Plan, will regulate
architecture, building massing and arrangement, landscaping, streetscape, parking arrangement,
and general practices of good urban design to facilitate The Cairns brand and create
predictability in quality development practices. Administration of these regulations is vested in
the Planning Division staff. The concept of the regulations is that after education of the design
professionals, the document states many design standards and suggestions to aid in the design
of the development to support the Cairns vision and to obtain the City desired design character.

---

Towne Ridge Retail Pad Sites Site Plan Review      SPR-08-20-5886      Page - 4 -

The suggestions are cited in the regulations as "shoulds" and the standards are cited as "shalls".
It was envisioned that if a development project were to be designed so as to meet all of the
regulations (the shalls) then review by the Planning Commission would be waived. This follows
the concept of increased predictability within the development process. However, if the project
did not or could not meet all the "shalls", then the developer is to request review by the Planning
Commission to consider "exceptions" to the standards, and the Planning Commission can grant
exceptions, after considering the proposed design differences and weighing the benefits of the
offsetting "enhancements" offered by the developer in the project design, against the requested
"exceptions".

To aid in this process, The Cairns Design Standards document contains a section titled "Appendix
D, List of Requirements." This is a condensed list of all the design "shalls" contained in the whole
document. This is the point in the process where the Planning Commission is being asked to
consider the specific "exceptions" to the standards and to determine if the offsetting
"enhancements" offered by the design of the project justifies the granting of the "exceptions."
The applicants are seeking numerous exceptions from the requirements as part of this project.

The attached Appendix "D" document was initially submitted by the developer's design team. To
aid in both the planning staff's and the Planning Commssion's review of the project, staff has
added determinations to the document, as to meeting the requirements or not and indicated
staff's determination of compliance or the need for an exception and some indication of staff
support for the exception being granted by the Planning Commission. This has been indicated
with some narative comments from staff in the margins and some symbols used to agree that a
standard has been met, or if it can be met through further plan evolution during final site plan
review. Staff has also identified provisions that need an exception to the standard. The attached
Appendix "D" document, dated November 10, 2020, was last reviewed and analyized by staff on
November 10, 2020 and given back to the developer's design Team. This document is attached
as part of the staff report, and could be reviewed by the Commission on a point by point basis.

Since that time, the developer's design team has made some modifications to some of the
drawings and provided a three page letter on November 12, 2020. This letter and the changes
to the drawings are the developer's final submissions and attempt to clarify their responses to
staff's judgements in the appendix "D" document and to emphasize the requested design
"exceptions" and offsetting "enhancements".

The Planning Commission is being asked to weigh in totality the value of the proposed
enhancements against the requested exceptions from the design standards.

Major Exceptions:  The major design concession (as determined by the Planning staff and
therefore warranting further staff analysis) which are being sought in this project are as follows:

    1.  Chapter 3, Streetscape Design. Because these two subdivision lots were designed as part
        of the WCF masterplan and the Towne Ridge Commercial Subdivision, their
        configuration, street orientation and physical size have been set. Additionally, the
        relocation and burial of the canal has prohibited building locations on the two pad lots to
        be on the central and northern portions of Lot "C" and the eastern portions of the Lots "B"
        and "C", closer to State Street. However, it is the desire of the owner to have drive-up

---

Towne Ridge Retail Pad Sites Site Plan Review      SPR-08-20-5886      Page - 5 -

        window restaurant uses in each building. This places the drive-up window vehicle
        queuing lanes to be between the buildings and the pedestrian realm of the park strip and
        sidewalk along the west side of State Street. That is preventing compliance with the
        required minimum and maximum building setbacks. According to the Cairns Design
        Standards, the building setback for both lots along State Street are a minimum setback of
        26 feet from the back of the curb and a maximum building setback of 38 feet from the
        back of the curb. The proposed building setback for pad lot "B" is 48 feet from the back
        of the curb. For the pad lot "C" the State Street front yard setback is proposed to be 47.0
        feet from the back of the curb.

        The required building setback for the secondary frontage of pad lot "C" is a minimum of
        24 feet and a maximum of 41 feet from the back of the curb on Albion Village Way. The
        proposed building setback for pad lot "C" on the secondary street frontage along Albion
        Village Way is 165 feet. This is due partly to the canal location and partly to place on-site
        parking to the south of the pad lot "C" building with two double stack parking banks in an
        efficient layout.

        In an attempt to mitigate the impact of the drive-up window vehicle queuing lanes along
        the State Street frontages, three ideas were suggested and implemented on this project.
        First, is the proposed screening fence and vegetative plantings between the sidewalk and
        the queuing lanes. Second, was the concept of bringing two portions of each of the
        buildings' awnings forward toward State Street and then having supporting columns of
        the building come up from the ground, and connecting the awning/roof over the queuing
        lanes. These building columns are located between the queuing lanes and the sidewalk..
        Doing this is hoped to give the impression that the building, or a portion thereof is much
        closer to the sidewalk and the pedestrian realm than the bulk of the building actually is.
        This would place the awning supporting columns at a setback of approximately 13 feet
        from the back of the curb for the pad lot "C" and at approximately 14 feet from the back
        of the curb for pad lot "B".

        Finally, it was suggested that the surface area between the building frontage and the
        drive-up vehicle queuing lane could be set at the same cross slope grade from the building
        to the east edge of the queuing lane. This would allow the entire hard surfaced area
        between the building and the east edge of the queuing lane to be converted and used as
        outside gathering and dining space, should the drive-up window use ever wane in
        populartity in the future. In the interim, the gathering space/dinning space and the drive-
        up window queuing lanes could co-exist.

    2.  Chapter 5, Commercial and Hospitality Building Architecture. The proposed exterior
        building materials for both buildings consists of glass store fronts, architectural metal
        panels, stone and reclaimed wood used for siding. The reclaimed wood siding is a desire
        of the owners and may qualify for consideration for a "net zero" building credit (a LEEDS
        alternative). The Sandy City Architectural Design Committee raised concerns about the
        suitability of using reclaimed wood as siding, in that it may not be a "durable material" in
        this climate and context.

    3.  Chapter 6, Surface Vehicle Parking. The Cairns Design Standards require that when
        surface parking lots are proposed to be located between a building and a public street,

---

Towne Ridge Retail Pad Sites Site Plan Review      SPR-08-20-5886      Page - 6 -

        that at least 50 percent of the street frontage area be fronted with buildings. This
        requirement is met for the State Street frontages, but is not met for the side street
        secondary frontage along Albion Village Way. Here, the building on proposed pad lot "C"
        is set back 165.5 feet. As stated above, part of the reason the building cannot be fronted
        closer to Albion Village Way is the location of the buried canal. An exception for the
        building frontage requirement along Albion Village Wasy is necessary to allow the
        development of this site and still locate required vehicle parking on the lot.

The developer is seeking these three major exceptions and several other more minor exceptions
from several areas of the Cairns Design Standards (see Exceptions document). The Planning
Commission can approve these exceptions so long as the applicant demonstrates the following:
    •   Compliance with the intent of the applicable regulations; and
    •   Compliance with the intent of the Master Plan; and
    •   Providing through the proposed enhancements, the same or better quality of design, as
        determined by the Planning Commission.

If these criteria are determined to be not met, the Planning Commission may require additional
development enhancements or choose to not grant certain exceptions, which would then require
some project redesign.

Staff Concerns.
The only concerns that the planning staff has at this point in the process is the proposed use of
the reclaimed wood siding in this climate. This requires a balancing of the possible dedgredation
of the appearance of the wood after subjection to long term environment exposure and the
owner's desire to gain credits toward a "Net Zero" building goal and the value of the look of this
material considering the "mountain meets urban" design theme.

(This staff concern could be considered by the Planning Commission as additional project
conditions of approval.)

Much progress has been made through cooperative collaboration between the planning staff and
the developer's design professionals. Staff believes that this project has been greatly improved
and benefited from this collaboration and by undergoing The Cairns design review process.

Staff finds that the intent of the regulations and master plan are substantually met with the
proposed design.

Staff is comfortable recommending approval of the requested exceptions. Staff also recommends
acceptance by the Planning Commission of the proposed project enhancements which justify
granting the requested exceptions.

STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission find that the preliminary site plan review is
complete for the proposed Towne Ridge Retail pad lots "B" and "C" project, based upon the
following three findings and the following eight conditions:

FINDINGS.

---

Towne Ridge Retail Pad Sites Site Plan Review      SPR-08-20-5886      Page - 7 -

    A.  That the proposed project has been extensively reviewed and refined and now
        meets the intent of both The Cairns Master Plan and The Cairns Design Standards.
    B.  That the proposed project meets all the applicable requirements of the Sandy City
        Development Code and the Sandy City Architectural Design Standards as to building
        architectural design, materials and colors.
    C.  That the requested exceptions to The Cairns Design Standards are found to be
        justifiable and the impact of these design exceptions will be fully compensated by
        the proposed project enhancements.

CONDITIONS.

    1.  That the developer proceeds through the final site plan review process with staff prior
        to the start of any construction. The final site plan shall comply with all Development
        Code requirements and those modifications required or allowed by the Planning
        Commission.

    2.  That the development complies with all Building & Safety, Fire and Life Safety
        Codes applicable to this type of use.

    3.  That the developer be responsible to meet all provisions of the CDB Zone and The
        Cairns Design Standards, except as otherwise allowed by the Planning
        Commission, with the details finalized with staff during final site plan review.

    4.  All utility boxes (i.e. transformers, switchgear, telephone, cable TV, etc.) shall be shown
        on the site plan and shall be placed underground or moved behind the front setback of
        the buildings and screened from view, preferably located along the proposed driveway.
        Each box shall be shown in its exact location and shall be noted with its exact height,
        width and length. Building utility meters shall be mounted to the side or rear elevation
        or screened.

    5.  That the developer be responsible for the placement of a temporary 6 foot high chain
        link fence around the perimeter of the project during the construction phase of the
        project for security. Said fence shall also be required to include fabric to prohibit
        blowing dust problems, if it becomes necessary or if it is required by the Community
        Development Department during Site Plan Review.

    6.  That the applicant complies with all department requirements as noted in all
        Preliminary Review letters prior to submittal for final site plan review with staff.

    7.  That the amenities illustrated on the preliminary site plan be a requirement of this
        development.

    8.  That all signage be reviewed and approved under separate permit and be in
        conformance with City Code.

---

Towne Ridge Retail Pad Sites Site Plan Review      SPR-08-20-5886      Page - 8 -

Planner:                                          Reviewed by:  [initials] BM

[signature] Douglas L. Wheelwright
Douglas L. Wheelwright
Development Services Manager

File Name: S:\USERS\PLN\STAFFRPT\2020\SPR-08-20-5886 STAFF REPORT.DOCX

---

[map/plat page 9 — no text]
Architectural Site Plan sheet A101, THINK Architecture. "TOWNE RIDGE RETAIL PADS B AND C, 9680 S STATE STREET, SANDY, UT 84070." Project No. 19106, Date: 10 SEP 2020. Contains Site Plan (1/A101) showing PAD C and PAD B buildings, parking, State Street, canal; plus detail views: Fence-Plan (2), Fence-Elevation (3), Dumpster Plan (4), Dumpster-Gate Elevation (5), Dumpster-CMU Wall Section (6), Wayfinding Sign (7), Wayfinding Sign-Plan (8), Wayfinding Sign-Elevation East Side (9), Wayfinding Sign-Elevation West Side (10). Wayfinding sign labels: "THE CAIRNS / OVERFLOW PARKING / TOWNE RIDGE SHOPS / TOWNE RIDGE TOWERS / EVENT CENTER." Stamp: RECEIVED NOV 12 2020 SANDY CITY COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT. Licensed Architect Jered Michael Plouzek, State of Utah.

[map/plat page 10 — no text]
Sheet A201, PAD B - Exterior Elevations, THINK Architecture. Project No. 19106, Date: 10 SEP 2020. PAD B - East Elevation (1), West Elevation (2), South Elevation (3), North Elevation (4). Sample tenant signage shown: "Jimmy's BBQ," "On Bakery," "Waffle World." Elevation/Section Material Legend: Reclaimed Wood Siding, Metal Wall Panels, Stone. Keynote Instructional key values: 04-40 Exterior Stone Veneer; 07-10 Reclaimed Wood Siding; 07-11 Metal Wall Panels; 07-12 24 GA Standing-Seam Metal Roofing; 07-17 Metal Fascia; 07-21 Cont. Sheet Metal Parapet Cap; 08-02 Exterior Aluminum Storefront Door & Window System; 08-07 Exterior Vinyl Windows; 10-03 Exterior Signage under separate permit. Stamp: RECEIVED NOV 12 2020 SANDY CITY COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT.

[map/plat page 11 — no text]
Sheet A202, PAD C - Exterior Elevations, THINK Architecture. Project No. 19106, Date: 10 SEP 2020. PAD C - East Elevation (1), West Elevation (2), South Elevation (3), North Elevation (4). Sample tenant signage shown includes "PUBLIC WELCOME," "Paint Palace," "Lake Moto," "Delightful," and others (partly illegible). Same Elevation/Section Material Legend: Reclaimed Wood Siding, Metal Wall Panels, Stone. Stamp: RECEIVED NOV 12 2020 SANDY CITY COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT.

[map/plat page 12 — no text]
Landscape Plan sheet L101, THINK Architecture. "TOWN RIDGE RETAIL PADS, 9700 SOUTH STATE STREET, SANDY, UT." Project No. 19106, Date: OCT. 22, 2020. Site Summary: Total Project Area 2.31 Acres; Landscape Area (Min. 10%) 0.33 Acres (14.3%); Total Trees 69 Provided; Street Type 3 Trees 6 Required, 6 Provided; Street Type 4 Trees 15 Required, 15 Provided; On Site Trees (1 Tree/400 SF of Landscaping) 41 Required, 48 Provided; Parking Lot Consumption of Overall Site (Max. 50%) 45.6%; Parking Frontage (Max. 50%) 158 LF (38.2%); Parking Area Landscaping (15% Required) 16%; Bike Rack Capacity 4 Required, 4 Provided; Benches 4 Required, 4 Provided; Trash Receptacles Provided 4; Recycling Receptacles Provided 4; Parking Stalls Provided 118 (Including 6 ADA). Tree List: 21 Acer grandidentatum (Big Tooth Maple) 2" Cal. B&B; 23 Prunus virginiana 'Canada Red' (Canada Red Chokecherry) 2" Cal. B&B; 15 Crataegus crus-galli 'Inermis' (Thornless Cockspur Hawthorn) 2" Cal. B&B; 2 Tilia cordata 'Corzam' Corinthian (Little Leaf Linden) 2" Cal. B&B; 8 Zelkova serrata 'Green Vase' (Japanese Zelkova) 2" Cal. B&B. Notes: 1. All plants to be selected from The Cairns District Plant List found in Appendix C of the Cairns Design Standards; 2. No trees, shrubs or perennials taller than 36" shall be planted within the sight triangles shown in plan; 3. No trees shall be planted within the canal easement. Stamp: RECEIVED NOV 12 2020 SANDY CITY COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT.

[map/plat page 13 — no text]
Rendering sheet A001, Exterior Views, THINK Architecture. Project No. 19106, Date: 10 SEP 2020. Perspective renderings labeled "OVERALL PROJECT," "VIEW FROM PEDESTRIAN WALK AT STATE STREET," "VIEW OF DRIVE THRU." Material samples: Metal Panel (Citadel Rainscreen Gun Metal); Stone (Creative Mines Split Modular Bison); Reclaimed Wood Siding; Storefront (Frame Anodized Aluminum / Glazing Clear); Canopy (Powder Coated). Stamp: RECEIVED NOV 12 2020 SANDY CITY COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT.

[map/plat page 14 — no text]
Rendering sheet A002, Exterior Views, THINK Architecture. Project No. 19106, Date: 10 SEP 2020. Perspective renderings labeled "PAD B - VIEW OF WEST ENTRIES," "PAD C - VIEW FROM WALK OF DRIVE THRU," "PAD C - VIEW OF DRIVE THRU," "VIEW FROM STATE STREET AT SOUTHEAST CORNER." Stamp: RECEIVED NOV 12 2020 SANDY CITY COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT.

[map/plat page 15 — no text]
Sheet A104, PAD B - Floor Plan, THINK Architecture. Project No. 19106, Date: 10 SEP 2020. Floor plan showing lease spaces: Future Restaurant 21A (124 SF), Future Kitchen 21B (702 SF), Lease Space 21C (711 SF), 22A (521 SF), 22B (700 SF), 22C (695 SF), 22D (531 SF), 23A (702 SF), Future Kitchen 23B (734 SF), Future Restaurant 23C (1033 SF); CT Enclosure & Meter, Fire Riser, Data. Floor Plan Key Notes: FL-01 Roof Access Ladder; FL-02 Solar Inverter; FL-03 Fire Riser. Stamp: RECEIVED NOV 12 2020 SANDY CITY COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT.

[map/plat page 16 — no text]
Sheet A105, PAD C - Floor Plan, THINK Architecture. Project No. 19106, Date: 10 SEP 2020. Floor plan showing lease spaces: 24A, 24B, 24C, 25A, 25B, 25C, 25D, 26A, 26B, 26C; CT Enclosure & Meter, Fire Riser, Data (square footages illegible). Floor Plan Key Notes: FL-01 Roof Access Ladder; FL-02 Solar Inverter; FL-03 Fire Riser. Stamp: RECEIVED NOV 12 2020 SANDY CITY COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT.
