                               MEMORANDUM
                                        December 17, 2020


 To:          Planning Commission
 From:        Community Development Department
 Subject:     Water Pro (Modified Conditional Use Permit)                       CUP-11-20-5950
              2555 E. Wasatch Blvd.                                                Zone: PUD(2)
              [Community #27 – Lone Peak]                                      Approx. 7.48 Acres



HEARING NOTICE: This item has been noticed to property owners within 500 feet of the subject
                area.



                                  PROPERTY CASE HISTORY
   CASE NUMBER                                    CASE SUMMARY
    SPR #02-02         Preliminary Site Plan Review
    CUP #02-03         Conditional Use Permit for Public Utility Station
    CUP #03-15         Modified Conditional Use Permit for a Well House

REQUEST
Water Pro has submitted an application for an amended Conditional Use Permit for a 1,894 sq.
ft. storage facility. The request is being proposed to provide security and protection from the
elements for an existing backhoe and other company vehicles. It would also incorporate a small
amount of office space and a work area. An associated staff report addresses the site plan review
application.

BACKGROUND
Water Pro is a water utillty company that serves a significant portion of Draper, Utah. The
existing treatment facility obtained preliminary site plan review approval in 2002. It also
received an original conditional use permit for a public utility station in 2002. In 2003 it received
a modified conditional use permit to add a well house.

To the west of the utility station are residential lots located in the R-1-12 zone. To the south
are also parcels in the R-1-12 zone, but they are currently used as part of the Water Pro
Water Pro – CUP-11-20-5950
                                                                                           Page - 2 -
water treatment facility. To the east and the north is property owned by the Salt Lake County
Water Conservancy District.

NOTICE
Notices were mailed to property owners within a 500-foot radius of the subject property to
notify them of the Planning Commission meeting. A neighborhood meeting was not held as the
proposed building location is not near any residential uses.

ANALYSIS

Storage Facility location
The location of the proposed storage facility will be just north of the existing covered
sedimentation basins and the water treatment facility building.

Access and Parking:
Access will remain unchanged from what currently exists at the site today. Two handicapped-
accessible parking stalls will be added on the west side of the building. The storage facility will
be constructed on an existing area that is currently landscaped with rock.

CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT:

Per Section 21-7-2 of the Sandy City Land Development Code, public utility stations are a
conditional use in PUD zones.

COMPLIANCE WITH SECTION 21-33-4
Staff response in italics.

   Conditions. In order to achieve compliance with the standards set forth herein, the
   City may impose conditions, which address standards 21-33-3(1.a) to (1.i), as contained
   in the Sandy City Development Code. This proposed conditional use meets or satisfies
   all of Conditions 1 through 15, except the following conditions, which merit discussion
   or additional consideration by the Planning Commission:

   1. Size, configuration and location of the site and the proposed site plan layout.
      The building is a reasonable size for the proposed use. It will be set back from the
      north property line by 22 feet. In PUD zones there is no minimum required
      setback. The Planning Commission determines the appropriateness of setbacks in
      PUD zones. In addition to adding security for the existing machinery and
      equipment, it will also keep them out of sight when not in use. The location is well
      placed for the configuration of the site.

   3. The adequacy, provision, relocation, or protection of public facilities and amenities,
      including roads and streets, culinary water, secondary water, sanitary sewer, storm
      drainage, public safety and fire protections, and other utilities.
      The stormwater runoff created by the additional hard surface of the building will be
      handled in accordance with the Public Utilities department’s requirements.
Water Pro – CUP-11-20-5950
                                                                                         Page - 3 -
   10. Measures directed at minimizing or eliminating possible nuisance factors,
       including, but not limited to, noise, vibrations, smoke, dust, dirt, debris, plant
       materials, odors, gases, noxious matter, heat, glare, electromagnetic disturbances,
       and radiation.
       The storage facility will be constructed on the northern portion of the site. The
       nearest use to the building will be the Salt Lake County Water Conservancy
       District facility. The building will be 20’ 8” tall, and it will not be near any
       residential uses. No new nuisances are anticipated.

   13. Identifying a time for regular review and monitoring, as determined necessary, to
       ensure the use continues to operate in compliance with all conditions and
       requirements of approval.
       This conditional use may be reviewed by legitimate complaint.

Concerns
Staff has no concerns with the proposed storage facility.

STAFF RECOMMENDATION
   1) Staff recommends that the Planning Commission approve a modified conditional use
      permit for a storage facility at the Water Pro public utility station in the PUD(2) Zone,
      based upon the following findings, and subject to the conditions listed below:

   Findings:

       1. A public utility station is a conditional use in the PUD(2) Zone.

       2. The use of the site itself is not being altered.

       3. Two handicapped-accessible parking stalls are being added and access is not being
          reduced or altered.

       4. The proposed storage facility will add additional security for work equipment and
          shield them from public view.

    Conditions:

   1. That the developer proceeds through the final site plan review process with staff
      prior to the start of any construction. The final site plan shall be in compliance with all
      Development Code requirements and those modifications required by the Planning
      Commission.

   2. That the development complies with all Building & Safety, Fire and Life Safety
      Codes applicable to this type of use.

   3. That the applicant complies with all department requirements as noted in all
      Preliminary Review letters prior to submittal for final site plan review with staff.

   4. That this use be reviewed upon legitimate complaint.
Water Pro – CUP-11-20-5950
                                                 Page - 4 -




Planner:                     Reviewed by:



Craig P. Evans               Brian McCuistion
Planner                      Planning Director
