--- Page 1 ---

Sandy City Council
Legislative Policies and Procedures

SUBJECT: Election of Council Officers          [Deleted: Chair]

BACKGROUND:

State law requires the City Council to elect one of its members as Council Chair. Specifically, Utah Code Annotated Section 10-3b-203(1)(a)(iv) says:

    "The council in a municipality operating under a council-mayor form of government shall elect one of its members to be chair of the council."

POLICY:

    1.  The Election of Council Officers policy adopted on January 13, 2009, as amended on March 31, 2015 and August 18, 2015 is hereby repealed.

    2.  Unless the City Council changes this policy by majority vote regarding the term, manner of election, or other conditions influencing the election of its officers, the City Council Chair and Vice Chair will serve approximately six-month terms. The City Council shall conduct an election for its officers by ballot vote on the first regularly scheduled meetings in January and July.
        [Deleted: The City Council will elect a Chair by ballot vote no later than the last regularly scheduled meeting in June to commence a six-month term beginning July 1 and ending December 31 the same year. The City Council will also elect a Chair by ballot vote no later than the last regularly scheduled meeting in December to commence a six-month term beginning January 1 and ending June 30 the same year.]
        [Formatted: Condensed by 0.15 pt]
        [Formatted: Indent: Left: 0.58", No bullets or numbering]

    3.  The election for the Chair will be conducted first followed by the election for the Vice Chair.

    4.  A majority vote of the entire membership of the Council (four affirmative votes) is required for election of the Chair and Vice Chair regardless of absences or abstentions.

    5.  If, after three ballots at the regularly scheduled semi-annual election for the Chair or Vice Chair, no Council Member receives a majority vote, the incumbent will continue to serve as Chair or Vice Chiar. A new election will be held at the next regularly scheduled meeting of the City Council. No more than three ballots for Chair will be taken at any one Council meeting. A Council Member who receives a majority vote for the office of Chair shall assume the role and responsibility of Chair immediately at the meeting in which the election occurred and shall serve the term described in Section 2.
        [Deleted: until a subsequent,]
        [Deleted: .]
        [Deleted: after July 1 or January 1]

    6.  The Chair and Vice Chair may be reelected for one consecutive term upon a majority vote of the Council. A council member may not serve more than two consecutive terms.

    7.  The Vice-Chair will chair the Council meetings in the absence of the Chair. There is no presumption that the Vice-Chair will serve as the next Chair.
        [Deleted: The Council shall elect a Vice-Chair by ballot vote. The …]
        [Deleted: The same voting procedures and requirements outlined in sections 2 through 5 also apply to the office of Vice-Chair….]

History:
Original Adoption: November 15, 2017
Revision: June 13, 2017
