                             MEMORANDUM
                                         July 30, 2020


 To:         Planning Commission
 From:       Community Development Department
 Subject:    KLM Endeavors – Heavy Commercial Use in RD Zone                   CODE-07-20-5879
             Amend Title 21, Chapter 8 - Land Uses in the
             Commercial, Office, Industrial, Office, Industrial, Mixed
             Use, Transit Corridor, and Research and Development
             District of the Sandy Municipal Code


HEARING NOTICE: This item has been noticed on public websites, and in the newspaper at least
                10 days prior to the Public Hearing.



                                                 REQUEST
                                                 Kelly Lund, representing KLM Endeavors, has
                                                 applied for a code amendment to the land use
                                                 matrix for commercial zones to allow for Heavy
                                                 Commercial Uses in the Research and
                                                 Development (RD) Zoning District. The proposal
                                                 would amend Chapter 8 - Land Uses in the
                                                 Commercial, Office, Industrial, Office, Industrial,
                                                 Mixed Use, Transit Corridor, and Research and
                                                 Development District of the Sandy Municipal
                                                 Code. The RD Zone is currently only in one area of
                                                 the City (see zoning map). It is located along the
                                                 freeway frontage road of 300 West, bounded by
                                                 1-15 on the east, Front Runner rails on the west,
                                                 9400 South to the north, and Sego Lily Drive on
                                                 the south. The proposed code change would allow
                                                 for this existing Heavy Commercial business to
                                                 remain in its current location and allow the
                                                 business to expand where the current code would
                                                 prohibit these types of businesses in the zone
                                                 (see the attached applicant’s letter).
KLM Endeavors - Heavy Commercial Use in RD Zone – CODE-07-20-5879                         Page - 2 -


BACKGROUND
In 1981, the RD Zone was established and applied to an undeveloped area located at approximately
1000 East and 9000 South. In 2000, the RD Zone was changed in anticipation of applying this zone to
the current area zoned RD (see zoning map). At the same time, this area was rezoned from the
Industrial (ID) Zone to RD. This area was viewed as an essential appendage of the City’s Civic Center
Master Plan, and the rezone dubbed this area “Civic Center West”. The ID Zone and associated uses
were not viewed as compatible with the City’s vision for the area. There were only a couple of sites
that had been developed at this point, one of which was the current KLM site. The City created a
Research and Development Zone to help realize that vision and prohibit the area from developing
with industrial uses. The following are the purpose statements of the RD Zone:

Section 21-4-11(16)

Research and Development District (RD).

a.     This district is established to provide locations for commerce, service, research and
       employment activities. Such locations and site improvements shall project a desirable
       appearance toward public streets and maintain compatibility with adjacent land uses.

b.     Except for limited accessory and ancillary uses, and planned developments for areas east
       of Interstate 15, the RD District provides for employment locations which are
       characterized by office and compatible research, corporate headquarters, and campus-
       like development with substantial visual amenities which can function in areas close to
       residential areas as well as other similar uses within the RD District.

With the rezone in place, the City expressly encouraged sites like the KLM property, to redevelop
overtime to conform to the new requirements and land uses of the RD Zone. Most of the undeveloped
farmland that existed in 2000 has since developed into office buildings, a college campus, and
corporate headquarters. There are a few properties that don’t face the freeway frontage road that
have yet to develop or redevelop under the RD Zone.

ANALYSIS
The Planning Commission must review the following criteria when considering a requested Code
Amendment:

Is the change reasonably necessary?
Is it in the public interest?
Is it in harmony with the objectives and purposes of the future development of Sandy City?
Is the change consistent with the General Plan?

The applicant’s request expresses how they view the requested code amendment meets these
criteria. Staff believes that the intent of the proposed amendment meets the criteria mentioned
above.

This new zone proved to be beneficial to the City as it encouraged several employment centers,
research facilities, and corporate headquarters. Most of the land within this zone has been developed
with just a few parcels that have not yet developed fully or have not redeveloped since the ID Zone
was established for the area. One such property (415 W. 9800 S.) is owned and used by KLM
Endeavors that uses the property for their HVAC business and contractors’ yard. This use is defined
in the code as follows:
KLM Endeavors - Heavy Commercial Use in RD Zone – CODE-07-20-5879                                Page - 3 -


Commercial, heavy, means
an       establishment      or
business which generally
uses open sales yards,
outside equipment storage
and/or company vehicles
and trucks, or outside
activities that generate noise
or other impacts considered
incompatible      with    less
intense      uses.     Typical
businesses included in the
term "commercial, heavy,"
are        lumber       yards,
construction         specialty
services, heavy equipment
suppliers, or construction
related contractors and
subcontractors.

This use is compatible with
the ID zone but is not
permitted in the RD Zone.
Being a non-conforming use,
expansion and improvement
is limited as the zoning
encourages      them      to
redevelop to conform to the
zone, rather than maintain
or expand the existing uses.

Staff’s position is that these
remaining properties are
not likely to redevelop into conforming uses in the RD Zone. They are smaller in land area, and lack
freeway exposure. Industrial types uses are a more likely land use, given the location and lack of
visibility. Therefore, the proposed change to the land use matrix affecting the RD Zone is appropriate.
Staff supports the change but would recommend a location restriction for Heavy Commercial and
Industrial uses to be limited to properties that do not have street frontage along the freeway frontage
road (300 West). See the attached Exhibit “A” to see the code change in context.

NON-CONFORMING USES
This Code Amendment would not create any non-conforming use situations.

LAND DEVELOPMENT CODE PURPOSE COMPLIANCE
The Sandy City Land Development Code in 21-1-3 lists the criteria explaining the intent and
purpose of the Ordinance. The purpose is:

Sec. 21-1-3. - Purpose and Scope.

(a)    Purpose. The ordinance from which this title is derived is adopted to implement the Sandy City's
      General Plan and to promote public health, safety, convenience, aesthetics, and welfare; efficient use
      of land; sustainable land use and building practices; transportation options and accessibility; crime
KLM Endeavors - Heavy Commercial Use in RD Zone – CODE-07-20-5879                                   Page - 4 -


     prevention; timely citizen involvement in land use decision making; and efficiency in development
     review and land use administration. Specifically, this title is established to promote the following
     purposes:
     (1)     General.
            a.   To facilitate the orderly growth and development of Sandy City.
            b.   To facilitate adequate provision for transportation, water, sewage, schools, parks, and other
                 public requirements.
            c.   To stabilize property values.
            d.   To enhance the economic well-being of Sandy City and its inhabitants.
     (2)     Implementation of General Plan. To coordinate and ensure the implementation of the City's
            General Plan through effective execution of development review requirements, adequate facility
            and services review and other goals, policies, or programs contained in the General Plan.
     (3)     Comprehensive, Consistent and Equitable Regulations. To establish a system of fair,
            comprehensive, consistent and equitable regulations, standards and procedures for review and
            approval of all proposed land development within the City.
     (4)     Efficiently and Effectively Managed Procedures.
            a.   To promote fair procedures that are efficient and effective in terms of time and expense.
            b.   To be effective and responsive in terms of the allocation of authority and delegation of powers
                 and duties among ministerial, appointed, and elected officials.
            c.   To foster a positive customer service attitude and to respect the rights of all applicants and
                 affected citizens.


GENERAL PLAN COMPLIANCE
The General Plan encourages appropriate development standards for all uses and zoning categories
within Sandy City. This code amendment would further that goal and objective. The proposed Code
Amendment will facilitate the orderly growth and development of Sandy City. These regulations
would help promote the health, safety, and welfare of our residents.

STAFF RECOMMENDATIONS
The Community Development Department requests that the Planning Commission forward a positive
recommendation to the City Council to adopt the proposed ordinance amendment as shown in
Exhibit “A”, attached, for the following reasons:

1.         The proposal complies with the Purpose of the Land Development Code as stated in section
           21-1-03.

2.         Compliance with the Goals and Policies of the General Plan by establishing appropriate
           development standards for all uses and zoning categories within Sandy City.

Planner:




Mike Wilcox
Zoning Administrator

File Name: S:\USERS\PLN\STAFFRPT\2020\CODE-07-20-5879_HEAVY COMMERCIAL USE IN RD ZONE\STAFF REPORT.DOCX
