                               MEMORANDUM
                                        August 20, 2020


 To:          Planning Commission
 From:        Community Development Department
 Subject:     Challenger School Sandy (Conditional Use Permit)               CUP-07-20-5883
              10670 S. 700 E.                                                        Zone: CN
              [Community #11 – Crescent]                                    Approx. 7.89 Acres



HEARING NOTICE: This item has been noticed to property owners within 500 feet of the subject
                area.



                                PROPERTY CASE HISTORY
  Case Number                                     Case Summary
 SPR #77-15          Ream’s Market – Site Plan Approval
 SPR #78-31          Ream’s Addition – Site Plan Approval
 CUP #92-10          Ream’s - Conditional Use Approval
 SPR #92-20          Ream’s Grocery Store - Site Plan Approval
 SUB-08-19-5699      Lot Line Adjustment approved August 29, 2019

DESCRIPTION OF REQUEST
The applicant, Challenger School Foundation, is requesting preliminary site plan review and a
conditional use permit (to allow a “School, private or quasi-public” land use in the CN Zone), for
Challenger School Sandy. The proposal will encompass approximately 7.89 acres. The applicant
is not requesting any exceptions in association with this application. All provisions of the base
zone will be adhered to through the review and approval process. An associated staff report
addresses the site plan review application.

BACKGROUND

The proposed site plan is located in the CN zone (Planned Center – Neighborhood District). The
school site is located where a Ream’s Grocery Store was previously located. The property is
bordered on the north by a SuperSonic Car Wash in the CN zone. To the west are residential
Challenger School Sandy – CUP-07-20-5883                                                   Page - 2 -


properties that are located in the R-1-15A, R-1-20A, and R-1-40A zones. To the south is a
PUD(10) zone that is currently being reviewed for a potential planned unit development of 40
townhomes. Finally, to the east is the frontage along 700 E. Across the street on 700 E. is a
McNeil’s Car Care (zoned CN), and also residential uses in the PUD(8) zone.

NOTICE
Notices were mailed to property owners within a 500 foot radius of the subject parcels as per Sandy
City Land Development Code requirements, to notify of the Planning Commission meeting.
Additionally, planning staff held a neighborhood meeting on July 8, 2020, which had 15 residents
in attendance. Residents expressed concerns related to the possible need for a median on 700 E.;
the need for and type of fencing between the school and the adjacent residences; potential
nuisances from sporting events or mass gatherings; as well as sufficiency of parking for those
activities.

CONDITIONAL USE ANALYSIS

Conditional Use consideration for School, private or quasi-public:

Under the Sandy City Development Code, the Planning Commission, through the Conditional Use
process, can: approve Conditional Uses if no mitigation of reasonably anticipated detrimental
impacts is necessary; approve Conditional Uses, subject to reasonable conditions designed to
mitigate or eliminate reasonably anticipated detrimental impacts; or deny Conditional Uses, if it
is determined that reasonably anticipated detrimental impacts cannot be adequately mitigated. The
burden of mitigating these impacts or effects is the responsibility of the applicant and not of the
municipality or adjacent property owners (Section 21-33-04).

Compliance with Section 21-33-04, Conditional Use Permit:

   1. Size, configuration and location of the site and the proposed site plan layout.

       The layout is properly designed and located. The site is adequately sized for the proposed
       new building.

   2. Proposed site ingress and egress to existing and proposed roads and streets

       The ingress and egress to and from the site will be adequate for use by this facility.

   3. The adequacy, provision, relocation, or protection of public facilities and amenities,
      including roads and streets, culinary water, secondary water, sanitary sewer, storm
      drainage, public safety and fire protections, and other utilities.

       All of these public facilities either presently exist at the site and are functioning, or are
       proposed to be improved and expanded by the proposed site improvements. These public
       facilities will not be detrimentally impacted by the proposed Conditional Use of the
       property.


   4. Design, location and amount of off-street parking, loading areas and solid waste disposal
      and collection areas.
Challenger School Sandy – CUP-07-20-5883                                                    Page - 3 -


       Adequate vehicle parking, drop-off and pick-up areas, and sufficient dumpster enclosures
       will be provided for the use as designed on the site plan.

   5. Site circulation patterns for vehicular, pedestrian and other traffic.

       Site circulation will be sufficient for the use as designed on the site plan and as per the
       prior experience of the owners of the school.

   6. Mass, size, number, location, design, exterior features, materials, and colors of buildings,
      structures and other facilities.

       The building design, materials, and colors meet the zoning requirements and the Sandy
       City Architectural Design regulations, and staff has reviewed the design and has
       recommended approval by the Planning Commission as part of the site plan review.

   7. The location and design of all site features, including proposed signage, lighting, and
      refuse collection.

       This standard will be met. Site signage is not included in this review, but must be by
       separate application.

   8. The provision of useable open space, public features, and recreational amenities.

       This standard is not applicable.

   9. Fencing, screening and landscape treatments, and other features designed to increase the
      attractiveness and safety of the site and protect adjoining property owners from noise,
      visual, and other impacts.

       The site landscaping will be installed as part of this site plan approval as shown on the
       attached plans. The standard will be met.

   10. Measures directed at minimizing or eliminating possible nuisance factors, including, but not
       limited to, noise, vibrations, smoke, dust, dirt, debris, plant materials, odors, gases,
       noxious matter, heat, glare, electromagnetic disturbances, and radiation.

       This facility will be subject to the noise limits imposed by the County Health Department.
       school activity noise will be present only during typical school operating hours. There will
       not be any unusual vibration, smoke, dust, and debris or plant materials nuisance factors
       after development of the building and site.

   11. Measures designed to protect the natural features of the site, including wetlands and
       drainage ways, ground water protection, soils, wildlife, and plant life.

       This standard is not generally applicable.

   12. The regulation of operating hours for activities affecting normal schedules and functions.

       Extended business hours are not being requested by the applicant.

   13. Identifying a time for regular review and monitoring, as determined necessary, to ensure
       the use continues to operate in compliance with all conditions and requirements of
       approval.

       The conditional use will be reviewable upon legitimate complaint, and any new impacts
Challenger School Sandy – CUP-07-20-5883                                                 Page - 4 -


       arising can then be addressed by the Planning Commission, through the imposition of
       additional mitigating measures.

   14. Measures to assure compliance with all conditions and requirements of approval,
       including, but not limited to, bonds, letters of credit, improvement agreements, agreements
       to conditions, road maintenance funds, and restrictive covenants.

       Measures to ensure compliance will be enforced by the Sandy City staff through normal
       plan review finalization and upon citizen complaint or staff observance of non-compliance
       and will be adequate to mitigate potential violations of approval conditions.

   15. Such other conditions determined reasonable and necessary by the City to allow the
       operation of the proposed conditional use, at the proposed location in compliance with the
       requirements of this title.

       To mitigate any potential negative impacts to the City and the neighborhood, staff suggest
       the conditions listed at the bottom of this report, 1 to 3.


STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission grant the Conditional Use request to allow
“School, private or quasi-public” land use, based on the staff report, the staff findings 1 to 15 in
the above analysis of the Conditional Use Standards and the three additional findings listed
below and subject to the following three conditions:

Findings:

   1. That the various City departments and divisions, including the City Engineer and the
      Transportation Engineer, have preliminarily approved the proposed related site plan.

   2. That the proposed site planning and infrastructure improvements and building design will
      provide substantial mitigation of reasonably anticipated detrimental impacts of the traffic
      circulation and vehicle queuing development upon the surrounding businesses and
      residences.

   3. That the proposed “School, private or quasi-public” land use request has been reviewed
      by staff considering the 15 standards contained in the Sandy City Development Code, 21-
      33-04, Conditional Use Process, and appropriate and adequate mitigation measures will
      be implemented or will be imposed as deemed necessary to minimize impacts to the
      surrounding business and residential community, subject to the following conditions.

CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL:

   1. That the applicant proceed through final site plan approval with staff as required by the
      Sandy City Development Code.

   2. That the Conditional Use Permit for “School, private or quasi-public” be reviewed upon
      future legitimate citizen complaint or staff observation of non-compliance with
      conditions.
   Challenger School Sandy – CUP-07-20-5883                                             Page - 5 -


       3. That the applicant be responsible to meet all provisions of the Sandy City Development
          Code and all conditions of approval that are included in this report and as may be
          imposed by the Planning Commission to mitigate the reasonably anticipated detrimental
          effects of the proposed use.



Planner:                               Reviewed by:


___________________________            ___________________________
Craig Evans                            Brian McCuistion
Planner                                Planning Director
                                           Pico St



                                                                                                                                                     I




                                                                                                       Dr




                                                                                                                                      r
                White Sands Dr




                                                                                                                    Silver Mountain D
                                                                                             Sandy P oi




                                                                                                      nt
                                      Pali St




                                 Hilo St




                                            10600 S
                                  540 E




                                                                                                                                Ct
                                                                                                                                                          Pepperell Cir




                                                                                                                                                     Carrington St
                                                                                                                     C ha
                                                                                                                                 rles                            Charleston
                                                                                                                                      t        on
1069                                                                                                                                                St              Cir
    5
        S
                                                                                                                Sh e
                                                                                                                    rato

                                                                                                          Dr
                                                                                                                             nC
                                                                                                                                          ir                 Cavendish C
                                           580 E




                                                                                                        ah
                                                                                                          ann

                                                           Subject Property
                                                                                     700 E



                                                                                                      Sa v




            10735 S
                                                             angewood Ln
                                                       Or




                                                                      Berrywood Ct




                                          Fruitwood Ln
                                                             Ct




                                 Cherry Plum Ct
                                                                                                                                                                     Pampas Dr

                                                                                                                        Pecos Dr
                         Ln




                                               Apple Tree Dr
                Tree




                                                                    SPR-06-20-5869 & CUP-07-20-5883
                                                                    Site Plan & Conditional Use Permit
                     Blosso m




                                                                                        10670 S. 700 E.
                                                                                               Feet                 PRODUCED BY CRAIG EVANS
                                           0    95   190      380    570             760     950          COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT
