                                SANDY CITY COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
                                                                                                 JAMES SORENSEN


Sandy
                                                                                            COMMUNTY DEVELOPMENT
                                                                                                    DIRECTOR

                                                                                                 KURT BRADBURN
                                                                                                     MAYOR

                                                                                                  MATTHEW HUISH
                                                                                           CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER




                                      MEMORANDUM
                                              September 5,2019


          To:         Sandy City Board of Adjustment
          From:       Community Development Department
          Subiect:    Firefly Forest Subdivision - Final Review - Alleged             BOA-08-19-5696
                      Error Review                                                         3.039 Acres
                      3392E. Deer Hollow Circle                                     R-L-40A, SA0 Zone
                      [Community #29 - The Dell]


         HEARING NOTICE: This item has been noticed to property owners within 500 feet of the subject
                         area.

                                          PROPERTY CASE HISTORY
            Case Number                                Case Summary
                               The Lone Springs Annexation added approximately 32.17 acres with 2L
          ANEX-09-12-2542      parcels of mostly developed land from Salt Lake County into Sandy City
                               and given the R-1-40AZone District on12/74/20L2.
                               The Payzant Annexation added approximately 5 acres with three
          ANEX-07-12-2459      parcels of vacant land into Sandy City and given the R-1-40A Zone
                               District on 1,0 /26 /2012.
                               On May 1,7 ,20L8,the Planning Commission determined that subdivision
                               review was not complete for the Lance Platt Subdivision [aka Firefly
          suB-02-18-5360       Forest) and special exception requests were denied as well. This
          sPEX-05-r.8-5406     proposal was for a flag-lot design proposal that involved a total of four
                               lots, but the intent was to create one new buildable lot as the other lots
                               involved already had homes on them.
                               A new revised application was submitted on the subject property. This
                               revised design involved two lots fronted on a private street, with the
                               intent to create one new buildable lot. On May 2,201.9, the Planning
                               Commission approved several waivers and special exceptions in
          suB-12-18-5580
          sPEX-01-19-5593
                               relation to the proposed Firefly Forest Subdivision. They also
                               determined that preliminary review was complete for the subdivision.
                               On May 16, 20L9, the Planning Commission adopted the Findings
                               relating to their decision. On fune 20,20L9, the Planning Commission
                               determined that final review of this subdivision was complete.


.l0000
         Centenniql Porkwoy Sondy, Utoh 84070 p: 801.568.7250 f : 80.l.568.7278 sondy,utoh,gov
Firefly Forest Subdivision-Final Review-Alleged Error Review - 804-08-19-5696 Page - Z -


REQUEST
The Appellants, Kelly Powers, Trent
Pearce, Zhibin Guo, and Kirk Olsen, are
represented by fames Dunkelberger of
Bennett Tueller f ohnson &           Deere
["Appellants"). On the Appellants' behall
Mr. Dunkelberger has filed a request with
the Sandy City Board of Adjustment to
review a claim that the Sandy City              d
                                                   a
                                                                           O.$tlcllqCk
                                                                                             t
                                                       a$rne.",
Planning Commission erred in their           *f*
decision to determine that Final Review of
the Firefly Forest Subdivision is complete
(see attached Appellants' Letter). These
Appellants are property owners who are
                                                                                  Subject
immediately adjacent to the proposed                                              Property
subdivsion [see the location map of the
subject property on the right).

BACKGROUND
The previous staff reports to the Planning Commission for the Firefly Forest Subdivision
(revisedJ for Prelinrinary Review (dated April26,201,9) and Final Review (dated f une L3, 201,9),
contains a full detail of the background of the property and its surroundings [see attached
Exhibit A and B of the Appellants' Letter). Please refer to this exhibit for a full report of
Planning Division Staffs ("Staff') analysis and recommendations to the Planning Commission.
The minutes from the May 2"d, May 16th, and Iune 20tt' Planning Commission meetings should
also be referenced (see attached Exhibit C and G of the Appellants' Letter and Planning
Commission Minutes). A full recording of those meetings can also be found on a City website
where all public meeting records are hosted: https://sandyutah.legistar,com/Calendar.aspx.

NOTICE
Notices were mailed to property owners within a 50O-foot radius of the subject parcel to notify
them of the Board of Adjustment meeting, scheduled for September 12,2019.

ANALYSIS OF REQUEST AND ORDINANCE SUMMARY
It is the Appellants'belief that the Planning Commission erred in its application of the Sandy City
Land Development Code ("Code") in determining that the final review is complete for the
proposed Firefly Forest Subdivision [revised). Their letter is very detailed. They conclude that
the actions of the Planning Commission were arbitrary and capricious, mainly on the claim that
the Planning Commission erred in its determination that final review was complete in spite of
opposition from Mr. Guo, a property owner within the proposed plat.

The intention of this report is not to provide a rebuttal of the Appellants' argument, but merely
to point out some facts to the Board of Adjustment for its consideration. It is clear that Mr. Guo
has made his stance known that he is not in support of the proposed plat. However, it is not a
required item to be reviewed by the Planning Commission at this stage of the approval process.
Firefly Forest Subdivision-Final Review-Alleged Error Review - 80A-08-79-5696 Page - 3 -


The Land Development Code sets out the criteria for the Planning Commission's evaluation of
proposed subdivisions. The following contain applicable excerpts of City ordinance(s)
[underlining added for emphasis]:

15A-30-03 Application and Review Process

 E. Planning Commission Review. When the preliminary subdivision plat has been
    determined to be complete and in compliance with all requirements, the plat, together with
    all supporting information, will be forwarded to the Planning Commission for review at a
    public meeting.

    The Planning Commission shall review the plat, including all supporting information, to
    determine if all appropriate impacts have been addressed and to receive public input,
    conceming impacts and mitigation. The Planning Commission may require additional
    studies/analyses to enable it to determine what impacts should be addressed and may
    establish additional requirements to address those anticipated impacts.

 H. Final Plat Approval
     l. The Director shall review the final plat and all supporting documents to determine if
        they are complete and comply with all the requirements of all departments, agencies
        and the Planning Commission. When the Director makes the determination that the
        final subdivision plat is complete and complies with all the requirements, the plat will
        be stamped and signed by the Planning Commission, the Chief Engineer of the Public
        Utilities Department, the City Engineer, the City Attorney, the Mayor, and each of
        those whose signature is required by the Utah Code Ann. or elsewhere in this Code.

The Planning Commission completed a Preliminary Review on fune 2,2019.In that meeting,
they reviewed "all supporting information, to determine if all appropriate impacts have been
addressed and to receive public input, concerning impacts and mitigation."

In the Conditions of Approval, the Planning Commission required that the application be
brought back to them for Final Review. This is not the typical process as outlined in the above
code references. Final Review is typically delegated to the Community Development Director,
However, the Planning Commission is the Land Use Authority and it has the ability to complete
that review as well. This Final Reviewwas conducted with the Planning Commission on June 20,
2019.1n that meeting they reviewed all supporting information to determine if all appropriate
impacts had been addressed and to receive public comment concerning impacts and mitigation.
The Planning Commission determined that the Final Review was complete, subject to the
conditions of approval. Those conditions were set to establish additional requirements to
address those anticipated impacts.

In Staffs review of the record, the Planning Commission adequately articulated its conclusions
and analysis in its motion at Preliminary and Final review stages. It does not appear that its
decision was carried out in an arbitrary or capricious manner. They followed the code
requirements listed above. The code does not require that the subject property owners
demonstrate consent until they sign the final mylar plat, which is prepared in the Final Approval
phase of the process. At that time, if the plat is not signed by all subject property owners, it
Firefly Forest Subdivision-Final Review-Alleged Error Review - BOA-08-19-5696 Page - 4 -


doesn't progress to plat approval as outlined in 154-30-03[H). Mr. Guo's rights as a property
owner are unchanged by the action of the Planning Commission. If not all affected property
owners sign the plat, nothing would be able to proceed further. Therefore no claims of taking or
damages could be complained of by the Appellants.

LEGAL STANDARD TO BE METAT PUBLIC HEARING
The Sandy City Land Development Code, Section 15A-35-1 sets the standards for reviewing an
appeal. The following excerpts of this section are presented to remind the Appellants and the
Board of the proper standards and procedures that must be followed [underlining added for
emphasisl:

15A-32-01 Appeals
E. Information to be Presented.
    l. An appellant must first present any and all information to the land use authority
        which it intends to raise before the appeal authority. The appellant may not bring
        new information for consideration before the appeal authority that had not been
        previously presented to the land use authority during its consideration of the matter.
    2. An appellant must present to the designated appeal authority every theory of relief
        that it can raise in district court.
    3. No new information that was not previously presented to the land use authority may
       be presented on appeal.

F. Review of the Record of the Land Use Authority.
    1. The appeal authority's review of decisions of a land use authority shall be confined
       to the administrative record developed by the land use authority unless the appeal
       authority determines that the record is incomplete or deficient.
   2. If the appeal authority determines that the record is incomplete or deficient" it may
       review the matter de novo.
G. Burden of Proof. The appellant has the burden of provine that the land use authority erred.

H. Standard of Review.
    1. Legal Issues - Correctness Standard. The appeal authority shall determine the
       correctness of a decision of the land use authority or administrative official in its
       interpretation and application of a land use ordinance. Because no specialized
       knowledge is necessary to make such a determination, no deference is given to the
       land use authority or administrative official provided. However, the appeal authority
       shall not ovemrle that decision as a matter of law without the advice of its legal
       counsel.
   2. Factual Issues and Other Issues - Arbitrary and Capricious Standard. Land use
       authorities and administrative officials have specialized knowledge in the field of
       planning and land use and are charged with and are experienced in implementing the
       goals and policies of the community as adopted by and under the supervision of
       elected representatives of the public. Accordingly, they should be allowed a
       comparatively wide latitude of discretion; and their actions endowed with a
       presumption of correctness and validity which an appeal authority should not
       interfere with unless it is shown that there is no reasonable basis to justif,, the action
       taken, and that, therefore, the determinations made were so unreasonable as to be
Firefly Forest Subdivision-Final Review-All eged Error Review - B0A-08-t9-5696 Page - 5 -


       arbitrary and capricious. It is not the appeal authority's prerogative to substitute its
       judgment for that of the land use authority where the record discloses a reasonable
       basis for the land use authority' determination.

The Board's review of the Planning Commission decision is to determine whether a reasonable
mind could reach the same conclusion as the Planning Commission did, in light of the evidence
the Planning Commission had before it. The Appellants must marshal all the evidence in support
of the Planning Commission decision and show that in spite of the facts, which support the
decision, and in light of conflicting or contradictory evidence, the decision is not supported by
substantial evidence. Substantial evidence is evidence, which is adequate to convince a
reasonable mind to support a conclusion. See Carlsen v. Board of Adjustment of City of Smithfield
2012UT App 260 1ln 4,5,7.

STAFF RECOMMENDATION
The Board should carefully consider and follow the statutory requirements for an appeal set out
above before rendering a decision. As stated in the ordinance cited, the Appellants bear the
burden of proving that the land use authority erred. It is not enough to show that one could
reasonably reach a different conclusion on the facts; as long as there is a reasonable basis for
the decision reached by the Planning Commission.

Based upon our analysis of the Appellants' Letter requesting the appeal and the standard of
review required, Staff recommends the following:

That the Board of Adjustment determine that the record on this decision is complete and not
deficient as demonstrated in the referenced Staff Reports, Planning Commission Minutes,
Findings and Conditions, and available recordings of the Planning Commission meetings, and
therefore, that the matter can be reviewed on the record, and not de novo.

That the Board of Adjustment determine that the Planning Commission did not err in making
its decision to determine that the Final Review of the Firefly Forest Subdivision (revised) was
complete, based upon the following findings:

Findings

   1. The Appellants have not shown that there was no reasonable basis to justify the action
       taken, and therefore, the determinations made were so unreasonable as to be arbitrary and
       capricious; in other words, the Planning Commission decision was correct in its
       interpretation and application of the Land Development Code.

   2. (lf applicable) The Planning Commission decision was reasonable and based on
       substantial evidence, including the following:

           a. (The Board will need to further cite and articulate the evidence, if applicable)
Firefly Forest Subdivision-Final Review-Alleged Error Review - 804-08-19-5696 Pase - 6 -


Planner:                                                    Reviewed by:

                                                                            (tA
                                              a
Mike Wilcox
Zoning Administrator

File Name: S:\USERS\PLN\STAFFRPT\2019\BOA-08-19-5696-FIREFLY FOREST SUBDMSION FINAL REVIEW - ALLEGED ERROR\STAFF
REPORT,DOCX




Included Exhibits Attached Hereto:

Appellants' Letter (including all exhibits)

May 16th Planning Commission Minutes




Notice to Appellants: Be prepared to discuss the criteria for an appeal of the decision of
Planning Commission as mentioned above in your presentation to the Board of Adjustment.
However, you may be aware of additional information that could be useful to the Board of
Adjustment, which you may wish to present orally or in writing at the public hearing,

NOTE: Anyappealofthedecisionof theBoardof AdjustmentmustbemadewithinthirQt [30] days
       to the appropriate District Court of the State of Utah. The proper forms and procedure for
      filing such an appeal may be obtained from the District Court or the attorney ofyour choice.
      Sandy CiU DOES NOT have this information and cannot assist you in any way with the
      filing of any appeal of a Board of Adjustment decision. Copies of the case file, including all
       evidence submitted will be made available to interested parties. You may make a copy oJ
           the audio tape of the proceedings at our offtces located at 10000 Centennial Parl<way, suite
           210, Sandy,Utah.
