                               MEMORANDUM
                                           May 28, 2020


 To:          Planning Commission
 From:        Community Development Department
 Subject:     Jolley Pharmacy (2nd Request) – Proposed Amendments               CODE-04-20-5844
              to the SD(Carnation) Zone
              Amend Title 21, Chapter 19 – Special Development (SD)
              Districts, Section 20 – SD(Carnation), of the Sandy
              Municipal Code


HEARING NOTICE: This item has been noticed on public websites, and in the newspaper at least
                10 days prior to the Public Hearing.



                                   PROPERTY CASE HISTORY
    Case Number                                     Case Summary
  R#04-04               Rezoned from CVC and OS to the SD(Carnation) Zone
  SPR#04-20             Phase 1 of the 106th South Retail Center Site Plan Review
  CODE-10-19-5752       A couple of code amendments to the SD(Carnation) Zone for Jolley
                        Pharmacy was approved by the City Council on December 17, 2019. The
                        amendment allowed for a pharmacy (including ancillary compounding)
                        and medical and health care office as permitted uses in this zone. It also
                        reduced the required landscape buffer along 10600 South.

REQUEST
Adam Nash, representing several property owners that are part of the area zoned SD(Carnation), has
submitted another application for more amendments to the existing SD(Carnation) Special
Development District. The proposal would amend Title 21, Chapter 19 – Special Development (SD)
Districts, Section 20 – SD(Carnation), of the Sandy Municipal Code. The existing SD Zone only affects
approximately 3.3 acres located at approximately 980 East 10600 South (see zoning map). The
proposed zone changes would allow for a pharmacy to operate with a drive-up and walk-up window
and to reduce the amount of required parking for all retail commercial uses within this zone district
(see the attached applicant letter).
Jolley Pharmacy - SD(Carnation) Code Amendments – CODE-04-20-5844                              Page - 2 -


BACKGROUND
In 2004, the SD(Carnation) Zone was developed specifically for this site and is not used in any other
location. These properties were previously zoned CvC (Convenience Commercial) and OS (Open
Space). The purpose of the SD Zone is expressed in the code:

Sec. 21-19-20. - SD(Carnation)—10600 S. 1000 E.
(a)    Purpose. The SD(Carnation) Zone is established to provide an area for convenience commercial retail
      services and professional and business offices with development standards compatible with those of
      contiguous properties.


A site plan was approved in 2004 for the existing retail building (currently used by Big 5 Sporting
Goods Store) and showed future phases being inline retail buildings and more parking. The future
phases never materialized to date. The applicant is currently working with staff on a new site plan
for the remaining undeveloped property.

Last fall, the same applicant submitted a code
amendment request that was unanimously
approved by the City Council on December 17,
2019. The code amendment made two (2)
changes to this zone district:
    1) Made pharmacy (including ancillary
        compounding) and medical and health
        care office permitted uses in this zone.
    2) A reduction in the required landscape
         buffer along 10600 South.

The properties are bordered to the north by
single-family homes and churches (Salt Lake
County Island – White City); to the west and
south by the Dimple Dell Recreation Center
(OS Zone); and to the east is a school and a
church (R-1-8 Zone).

ANALYSIS
The Planning Commission must review the following criteria when considering a requested Code
Amendment:

Is the change reasonably necessary?
Is it in the public interest?
Is it in harmony with the objectives and purposes of the future development of Sandy City?
Is the change consistent with the General Plan?

The applicant’s request letter does not state how the requested code amendments meet these
criteria. The current request includes proposed amendments that were originally proposed with
their previous code amendment request from last year. Staff did not support all the original requests.
After discussing the proposal further with the applicant, the request was revised and those received
approval. The applicant has now returned with this current application that includes the two (2)
items that were removed from the previous application.
Jolley Pharmacy - SD(Carnation) Code Amendments – CODE-04-20-5844                                  Page - 3 -


The first request is to allow drive-up and walk-up windows (in particular for a pharmacy) as
permitted uses in this zone. This zone was originally created with a limited selection of permitted
and conditional uses that mostly follows those of the CVC Zone, with some further exceptions. This
was done to limit the potential negative impacts from certain uses. Drive-up windows can create
negative impacts, in particular those connected with restaurants. Staff was initially concerned with
this request to allow any drive-up windows in this area. However, if these are limited to a non-food
uses (and possibly only a pharmacy), Staff is supportive. It’s also important to note that a walk-up
window is already allowed and not restricted.

The second request is to reduce the parking requirement to 3.5 parking stalls per 1,000 square feet
of net retail square footage. This is a large reduction from the current standard of five (5) stalls per
1,000 square feet of gross commercial space. The request represents a 30% reduction from the
standard. The distinction of net retail vs gross building square footage also constitutes an additional
large reduction on top of the 30% reduction. This would exclude all storage space from parking
calculation and only include retail/commercial floor space. This is not consistent with how the city
administers the parking requirements throughout all commercial zones. In the parking requirement
section of the Land Development Code (section 21-24), it already contains a mechanism to reduce
parking requirements up to 25% if it is demonstrated that such a reduction can be justified by
meeting certain criteria (see section 21-24-3). Staff is not supportive of this request.

A redlined version of all proposed text changes of the affected chapter is shown in Exhibit “A”
attached hereto. Staff’s recommended version of all proposed text changes is shown in the attached
Exhibit “B”.

NON-CONFORMING USES
This Code Amendment would not create any non-conforming use situations.

LAND DEVELOPMENT CODE PURPOSE COMPLIANCE
The Sandy City Land Development Code in 21-1-3 lists the criteria explaining the intent and
purpose of the Ordinance. The purpose is:

Sec. 21-1-3. - Purpose and Scope.

(a)    Purpose. The ordinance from which this title is derived is adopted to implement the Sandy City's
      General Plan and to promote public health, safety, convenience, aesthetics, and welfare; efficient use
      of land; sustainable land use and building practices; transportation options and accessibility; crime
      prevention; timely citizen involvement in land use decision making; and efficiency in development
      review and land use administration. Specifically, this title is established to promote the following
      purposes:
      (1)   General.
            a.   To facilitate the orderly growth and development of Sandy City.
            b.   To facilitate adequate provision for transportation, water, sewage, schools, parks, and other
                 public requirements.
            c.   To stabilize property values.
            d.   To enhance the economic well-being of Sandy City and its inhabitants.
      (2)    Implementation of General Plan. To coordinate and ensure the implementation of the City's
            General Plan through effective execution of development review requirements, adequate facility
            and services review and other goals, policies, or programs contained in the General Plan.
Jolley Pharmacy - SD(Carnation) Code Amendments – CODE-04-20-5844                                   Page - 4 -


     (3)     Comprehensive, Consistent and Equitable Regulations. To establish a system of fair,
            comprehensive, consistent and equitable regulations, standards and procedures for review and
            approval of all proposed land development within the City.
     (4)     Efficiently and Effectively Managed Procedures.
            a.   To promote fair procedures that are efficient and effective in terms of time and expense.
            b.   To be effective and responsive in terms of the allocation of authority and delegation of powers
                 and duties among ministerial, appointed, and elected officials.
            c.   To foster a positive customer service attitude and to respect the rights of all applicants and
                 affected citizens.


GENERAL PLAN COMPLIANCE
The General Plan encourages appropriate development standards for all uses and zoning categories
within Sandy City. This code amendment would further that goal and objective. The proposed Code
Amendment will facilitate the orderly growth and development of Sandy City. These regulations
would help promote the health, safety and welfare of our residents.


STAFF RECOMMENDATIONS
The Community Development Department requests that the Planning Commission forward a positive
recommendation to the City Council to adopt the proposed ordinance amendment as shown in
Exhibit “B”, attached, for the following reasons:

1.         The proposal complies with the Purpose of the Land Development Code as stated in section
           15A-01-03.

2.         Compliance with the Goals and Policies of the General Plan by establishing appropriate
           development standards for all uses and zoning categories within Sandy City.


Planner:




Mike Wilcox
Zoning Administrator

File Name: S:\USERS\PLN\STAFFRPT\2020\CODE-04-20-5844_JOLLEY PHARMACY #2\STAFF REPORT.DOCX
