Title 12 - ANIMAL SERVICESHYPERLINK \l "fn_20"[1] 
Footnotes: 
--- (1) --- 
State Law reference— Local authority relative to animals, U.C.A. 1953, §§ 10-8-59, 10-8-65, 10-8-77; Animal Welfare Act, U.C.A. 1953, § 11-46-101 et seq.; cruelty to animals, U.C.A. 1953, § 76-9-301 et seq. 
CHAPTER 12-1. - ANIMAL CONTROL 
Sec. 12-1-1. - No-Kill Policy. 
(a)  It is the policy of Sandy City that, subject to budget constraints, no domestic animal shall be euthanized if it can be adopted into a suitable home, transferred to a qualified rescue organization, or reasonably treated for disease or injury. If the animal is a feral or community cat, unless otherwise provided, it shall not be euthanized if it can be released after spaying, neutering, vaccination against disease, and ear-tipped according to this title. 
(b)  Sandy City shall provide a no-kill animal shelter within the parameters of and lawful constraints imposed by virtue of its budget and municipal status. As such, the no-kill designation does not preclude the euthanization of any animal: 
(1)  When such action is necessary to ensure the public health, safety and welfare; 
(2)  Which has a terminal illness or mortal injury beyond reasonable treatment; or 
(3)  As otherwise provided by this title. 
Euthanization shall be performed by Euthanasia by injection (EBI). 
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 3-1-1) Sec. 12-1-2. - Definitions. 
(a)  The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this title, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning: 
(1)  Abandon. 
a.  The term "abandon" means to intentionally deposit, leave, or drop off any live animal: 
1.  Without providing for the care of that animal, in accordance with accepted animal husbandry practices or customary farming practices; or 
2.  In a situation where conditions present an immediate, direct, and serious threat to the life, safety, or health of the animal. 
b.  The term "abandon" does not include returning wildlife to its natural habitat. 
(2)  Adoptable animal means any animal that can be handled with reasonable accommodations and does not pose a threat to the handler or other persons, animals or property, and appears healthy, showing no evidence of disease, injury or condition that might affect the health of the animal, or other animals or persons. 
(3)  Animal means any live non-human vertebrate animal. 
(4)  Animal foster home means the dwelling of an individual who cares for an animal until a qualified rescue agency can place the animal in a permanent home or otherwise determine the placement of the animal. (An animal foster home must still abide by pet limits.) 
(5)  Animal Services Officer means any sworn peace officer employed in the Sandy Animal Services Division, or a sworn officer employed by any local government with which Sandy City contracts for animal services. 
(6)  Animal shelter means a facility or program: 
a.  Providing services for stray, lost, or unwanted animals, including holding and placing the animals for adoption, but does not include an institution conducting research on animals, as defined by U.C.A. 1953, § 26-26-1; and 
b.  Operated by a first- or second-class county as defined in U.C.A. 1953, § 17-50-501; a city of the first, second or third class; a first- or second-class county operating the shelter jointly with any municipality; or a private humane society or a tax-exempt private animal welfare organization and holding a business license within a first- or second-class county or within a city of the first, second or third class. 
(7)  Assistance animal. 
a.  The term "assistance animal" means a domestic animal that is trained or is in training to lead, guide or assist a person who has a disability. 
b.  The term "assistance animal" includes any dog that: 
1.  Is trained, or is in training, to do work or perform tasks for the benefit of an individual with a disability, including a physical, sensory, psychiatric, intellectual, or other mental disability; 
2.  Performs work or tasks, or is in training to perform work or tasks, that are directly related to the individual's disability, including: 
(i)  Assisting an individual who is blind or has low vision with navigation or other tasks; 
(ii)  Alerting an individual who is deaf or hard of hearing to the presence of people or sounds; 
(iii)  Providing non-violent protection or rescue work; 
(iv)  Pulling a wheelchair; 
(v)  Assisting an individual during a seizure; 
(vi)  Alerting an individual to the presence of an allergen; 
(vii)  Retrieving an item for the individual; 
(viii)  Providing physical support and assistance with balance and stability to an individual with a mobility disability; or 
(ix)  Helping an individual with a psychiatric or neurological disability by preventing or interrupting impulsive or destructive behaviors. 
c.  The term "assistance animal" does not include an animal other than a dog, whether wild or domestic, trained or untrained; or an animal used solely to provide a crime deterrent, emotional support, well-being, comfort, or companionship. 
State Law reference— Assistance animal defined, U.C.A. 1953, § 62A-5b-102(3). 
(8)  At large, when used in reference to an animal, means any domesticated animal not under restraint by leash or other means of direct physical control. 
(9)  Attack means any menacing or threatening behavior to initiate or indicate aggression by an animal which reasonably causes fear, intimidation, or apprehension of immediate bodily harm in a place other than its enclosure or owner's or custodian's property, including baring its teeth, growling, lunging, barking aggressively, and approaching in an aggressive manner. 
(10)  Bite means an actual puncture, tear or abrasion of the skin inflicted by the teeth of an animal. 
(11)  Cat means any age feline of the domesticated type. 
(12)  Cattery means an establishment for boarding, breeding, buying, grooming or selling cats for profit. 
(13)  Community cat means a feral or free-roaming cat that has no custodian or owner, and which is without visibly discernible or microchip identification of any kind, and has been sterilized, vaccinated, and ear-tipped. 
(14)  Custodian means a person having custody of an animal. 
(15)  Custody means ownership, possession or control of an animal; any person keeping, harboring, sheltering or often feeding an animal shall be deemed to be the custodian thereof, within the meaning of this title. 
(16)  Director means the Director of the Division of Animal Services of Sandy City or the director of the contracting agency. 
(17)  Division means the Division of Animal Services of Sandy City or the entity that is contracted to provide animal services for Sandy City. 
(18)  Dog means any Canis familiaris. 
(19)  Domestic or domesticated animals means animals accustomed to living in or about the habitation of man, including, but not limited to, cats, dogs, fowl, horses, cows, sheep, swine and goats. 
(20)  Ear-tip/tipped/tipping means the procedure of removing approximately a quarter-inch off the tip of the cat's ear in a straight-line cut. 
(21)  Euthanize means a method of killing that minimizes pain, distress, and anxiety experienced by the animal prior to loss of consciousness, and causes rapid loss of consciousness followed by cardiac or respiratory arrest and death. 
(22)  Exposed to rabies means an animal has been exposed to rabies if it has been bitten by, or is reasonably suspected have been in physical contact with, any animal known to or reasonably believed to have been infected with rabies. 
(23)  Feral means an animal which is normally domesticated, but which is now wild. 
(24)  Feral cat means a wild or untamed cat or a cat without owner identification of any kind whose usual and consistent temperament is extreme fear of and avoidance of contact with people. 
(25)  He, his, him or other words in the male gender shall apply to persons of both genders, or shall apply to a non-individual entity such as a business or agency, except where the context clearly indicates otherwise. 
(26)  Impound or impoundment means the taking or picking up and confining of an animal by any sworn and certified peace officer who is an employee of a law enforcement agency that is part of or administered by the State of Utah or any of its political subdivisions, or by an Animal Services Officer. 
(27)  Kennel means a commercial establishment having three or more dogs for the purpose of boarding, breeding, buying, grooming, letting for hire, training for fee, or selling. 
(28)  Leash or lead means any tether, chain, rope or similar implement used to restrain an animal. 
(29)  Mammal means a warm-blooded vertebrate animal, not including a human being, of a class that is distinguished by the possession of hair or fur, the secretion of milk by females for the nourishment of the young, and (typically) the birth of live young. 
(30)  Muzzle means a fastening or covering of the mouth of an animal which prevents it from biting another animal or person, which does not cause injury to the animal and which does not significantly interfere with the animal's vision or respiration. 
(31)  No-kill shelter means a facility where no animal shall be killed or euthanized due to the length of time impounded, for any reasonably treatable illness or injury, or to create space for other animals to be impounded, subject to budget constraints. 
(32)  Owner means any person, partnership, corporation or other legal entity owning, harboring or keeping any animal. An animal shall be deemed to be harbored if it is fed or sheltered for three or more consecutive days. This definition shall not apply to any veterinary clinic or boarding kennel. 
(33)  Pet means a domesticated animal kept for pleasure rather than utility, including, but not limited to, birds, cats, dogs, fish, hamsters, mice, ferrets and other similar animals. 
(34)  Qualified rescue organization means a nonprofit organization, as defined in Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code, animal rescue or adoption organization approved by the Director and registered to do business. in the State of Utah. 
(35)  Quarantine means the isolation of an animal in an enclosure so that the animal is not subject to contact with other animals or unauthorized persons. 
(36)  Service animal means an assistance animal or an animal specially trained and used by police, government or rescue organizations, or any animal retired from active service duty in one or more of the listed organizations. 
(37)  Sterilized means an animal that has been surgically altered, either by the spaying of a female animal or by the neutering of a male animal, so it is unable to reproduce. 
(38)  Stray means any animal at large, as defined herein. 
(39)  Tag means a license tag issued by the Division of Animal Services. 
(40)  Trap-neuter-return (TNR) means a program through which free-roaming community cats are humanely trapped; sterilized and medically treated; and returned to the outdoor locations where they were found. 
(41)  Veterinarian means a person licensed to practice veterinary medicine in Utah under U.C.A. 1953, § 58-8-301, and following sections. 
(42)  Wild animal means any animal of a species that in their natural life are wild. Those animals, however domesticated, shall include, but are not limited to: 
a.  Alligators and crocodiles. 
b.  Bears (Ursidae). All bears, including grizzly bears, brown bears, black bears, etc. 
c.  Cat family (Felidae). All cats except the commonly accepted domesticated cats, and including cheetahs, cougars, leopards, lions, bobcats, lynx, panthers, mountain lions, tigers, wildcats, ocelots, etc. 
d.  Dog family (Canidae). All dogs except domesticated dogs, and including wolves, foxes, coyotes, dingos, etc., or any hybrid thereof. 
e.  Porcupine (Erethizontidae). 
f.  Primate (Hominidae). All subhuman primates. 
g.  Raccoon (Procyonidae). All raccoons, including eastern raccoons, desert raccoons, ring-tailed cats, etc. 
h.  Skunks. 
i.  Venomous fish and piranha. 
j.  Venomous snakes or lizards. 
k.  Weasels, meaning members of the Mustelidae family, including, but not limited to, weasels, martins, wolverines, badgers, otters, ermine, mink and mongoose. Ferrets, while members of the weasel family, are not considered wild animals for purposes of this title and may legally be kept as pets. 
(b)  Whenever any reference is made to any portion of this title, such reference applies to all amendments and additions thereto now or hereinafter made. 
(c)  Whenever a power is granted to, or a duty is imposed upon, the Animal Services Division, the power shall be exercised or the duty shall be performed by the Animal Services Director and/or the Animal Services Officer, or by any person or organization, its officers, agents, and employees, designated by contract or otherwise to enforce this title. 
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 3-1-2) Sec. 12-1-3. - Division of Animal Services. 
There is hereby created a Division of Animal Services, which Division shall be a part of and under the supervision of the Sandy City Police Department. 
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 3-1-3) Sec. 12-1-4. - Powers of Animal Services Officials. 
(a)  The Animal Services Director or any person employed by the Division as an Animal Services Officer shall take the oath of office and shall be vested with the power and authority to enforce the provision of this title. 
(b)  The Director, his deputies, assistants, and Animal Services Officers are hereby authorized and empowered to apprehend and take with them and impound any animal found in violation of this chapter, and including licensable animals for which no license has been procured in accordance with this chapter, or any licensed or unlicensed animals for any other violation thereof. 
(c)  To the extent allowed by the Fourth Amendment of the U.S. Constitution and Art. I, § 14 of the Utah Constitution, any peace officer, Animal Services Officer, the Director and his assistants are authorized to enter into the open premises of any person to secure, restrain or take possession of any animal which is reasonably deemed by such officer, to be in violation of this title. 
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 3-1-4) Sec. 12-1-5. - Animal Services Officers. 
(a)  The Animal Services Director shall have the powers and duties contained in this chapter. 
(b)  Each Animal Services Officer shall: 
(1)  Enforce the provisions of this chapter in all respects pertaining to animal services within the jurisdiction, including the care and impounding of animals and prevention of cruelty to animals. 
(2)  Carry out all duties prescribed or delegated by the Director. 
(c)  The Police Department of the Sandy City may, as requested, perform the duties of the Animal Services Division. 
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 3-1-5) Sec. 12-1-6. - Interference with Officer Prohibited. 
(a)  It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly and intentionally interfere with the Animal Services Director or any Division officer or by any person or organization, its officers, agents, and employees, designated by contract or otherwise to enforce this title, in the lawful discharge of his duties as herein prescribed. 
(b)  It shall be unlawful for any person to give or provide false personal identification information to any Division officer. 
(c)  Any violation of this section shall be deemed a Class B misdemeanor. 
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 3-1-6) Sec. 12-1-7. - Licensing. 
(a)  All dogs and cats must be licensed every 12 months to a person of the age of 18 years or older. If a custodian licenses a dog or cat in the same calendar month in which he obtains a three-year rabies vaccination for the dog or cat, then the dog or cat may be licensed for 36 months instead of 12 months. 
(b)  Any person owning, possessing or harboring any dog or cat shall obtain a license for such animal within 30 days after the dog or cat reaches the age of four months; or in the case of a dog or cat over four months, within ten days of its acquisition. 
(c)  License applications must be submitted to the Division, utilizing a standard form which requests the name, address, email address and telephone number of the applicant; breed, sex, color and age of the animal; and rabies information. The application shall be accompanied by the prescribed license fee and by a current rabies vaccination certificate. The custodian of a dog or cat over four months of age shall obtain a rabies vaccination for each such dog or cat by a licensed veterinarian at least every three years. 
(d)  License fees shall be established by resolution of the Sandy City Council, which may provide for a reduction in license fees if a dog and its owner have completed obedience training classes approved by the Director, or if the owner implants an approval microchip in the animal. 
(e)  Any license shall be valid for 12 consecutive months from the date of issue, or 36 months from the date of issue if obtained in conjunction with a three-year rabies vaccination as described in Subsection (a) of this section. A late fee shall be assessed for any license purchased after the expiration of a previously valid license. 
(f)  No more than two three dogs (other than an assistance animal, a retired assistance animal, or both) may reside at any address within the jurisdiction at a time unless a hobby license is obtained, or unless the address is an animal foster home at which up to four dogs may reside at a time, except that a person may keep the puppies born to a female dog in the person's custody until the puppies have reached the age of six months without obtaining a hobby license. A violation of this subsection shall be deemed a Class C misdemeanor. 
(g)    At any residence where three dogs are licensed, and not qualifying under the hobby license,  at least one of the three dogs must be spayed or neutered within 60 days of acquiring a third dog.
 (gh)   A free 12-month license may be issued by the Division for first-time licensees, at special Division-sponsored events where such free licenses are offered. 
(hi)  A 12-month license may be issued at no cost or at a reduced cost by the Division where an applicant submits evidence of inability to pay and where the Division determines that the applicant lacks the means to pay for an animal license due to circumstances reasonably beyond the applicant's control. 
(ij)  Except as otherwise provided in this section, any violation of this section shall be an infraction. 
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 3-1-7) 
State Law reference— Licensing of dogs, U.C.A. 1953, § 10-8-65. Sec. 12-1-8. - License Tag. 
(a)  Upon payment of the license fee, where such fee is required, the Division shall issue to the custodian a tag for each dog or cat licensed. The tag shall have stamped thereon the license number issued by the City. The custodian shall attach the tag to the collar or harness of the animal and see that the collar and tag are constantly worn. Failure to attach the tag as provided shall be in violation of this chapter, except that dogs or cats which are kept for show purposes are exempt from wearing the collar and tag when competing at show competitions. 
(1)  Any cat that has proof of the implantation of a microchip in its body may be licensed and is not required to wear a tag. 
(2)  A violation of this Subsection (a) of this section shall be an infraction. 
(b)  It shall be unlawful to transfer a license tag from one animal to another. No person shall place or keep on an animal a license tag which was not issued for that animal. Counterfeit or imitation license tags may not be placed or kept on any animal. No refunds shall be made on any license fee for any reason except for significant errors by the Division, and then in the Director's reasonable discretion. Replacements for lost or destroyed tags shall be issued upon payment of the appropriate fee to the Division. A violation of this subsection shall be a Class C misdemeanor. 
(c)  Any person removing or causing to be removed the collar, band, harness or tag from any licensed dog or cat without the consent of the custodian thereof, except a veterinarian or Division officer who temporarily removes such for medical reasons or other good cause, shall be in violation of this chapter. A violation of this subsection shall be an infraction. 
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 3-1-8) Sec. 12-1-9. - Licensing; Exemptions. 
(a)  The provisions of Sections 12-1-6 and 12-1-7 shall not apply to the following animals: 
(1)  Individual dogs or cats within a properly licensed kennel or other such establishment when such animals are held for resale. 
(2)  Dogs or cats validly licensed in another jurisdiction of the United States shall not be kept within Sandy for a continuous period of longer than 30 days, or for a total of more than 60 days in any one-year period, without obtaining a Sandy City animal license. 
(3)  Qualified rescue organizations. 
(4)  Animal foster homes. 
(b)  The fee provisions of Section 12-1-6 shall not apply to: 
(1)  Service animals in training or currently used for that purpose. 
(2)  The requirement to license dogs by persons who have a valid Sandy City hobby license. Such persons shall, however, be required to obtain a license for each cat they own, possess, or harbor. 
(c)  Nothing in this section shall be construed to exempt any dogs or cats from having a current rabies vaccination. 
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 3-1-9) Sec. 12-1-10. - Unlawful to Harbor Stray or Feral Animals. 
It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or harbor any domestic or wild animal which is lost, strayed or abandoned. Whenever any domestic animal is found which appears to be lost, strayed, or abandoned, it shall be the duty of the finder to notify the Animal Services Division by the next business day. The Division shall then impound the animal as herein provided. A failure to notify the Division of finding a lost, strayed or abandoned animal as provided in this section shall be a Class C misdemeanor. This section does not apply to feral or community cats. 
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 3-1-10) Sec. 12-1-11. - Animals Running at Large. 
It should be unlawful for the custodian of any animal to allow such animal at any time to run at large. The custodian of an animal found running at large shall be strictly liable for a violation of this section regardless of the precautions taken to prevent the escape of the animal and regardless of whether or not he knows the animal is running at large. The first violation of this section shall be an infraction. A second or subsequent offense shall be a Class C misdemeanor. 
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 3-1-11) Sec. 12-1-12. - Animals on Unenclosed Premises. 
It shall be unlawful for any person to chain, stake out, or tether any animal on any unenclosed premises in such a manner that the animal may go beyond the property line, unless such person has permission of the owner of the property where the animal enters. It shall be unlawful to chain, stake out or tether any animal to public property or to allow an animal so staked or tethered to go upon public property. 
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 3-1-12) Sec. 12-1-13. - Female Animals in Heat. 
Any owner or person having charge, care, custody or control of any female animal in heat shall, in addition to restraining such animal from running at large, cause such animal to be constantly confined in a building or enclosure so as to prevent it from coming into contact with male animals of the same species old enough to attempt to breed with the female animal. This prohibition shall not apply to planned breeding which occurs with the permission of the custodians of the male and female animal which attempt to breed, and which occurs on the property of the custodian of either the male or female animal, or at a kennel, or on the property of a person with a Sandy City hobby license. A violation of this section shall be an infraction. 
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 3-1-13) Sec. 12-1-14. - Places Prohibited to Animals. 
(a)  It shall be unlawful for any person to take or permit any animal, whether loose or on a leash or in the person's arms, in or about any establishment or place of business where food or food products are sold or displayed, including, but not limited to, restaurants, grocery stores, meat markets, and fruit or vegetable stores. This subsection shall not apply to police service animals and assistance animals. 
(b)  It shall be unlawful for any person having custody of any dog to allow said dog to be within any watershed area so designated where dogs are prohibited by ordinance or where legible signs are posted at all normally used entrances to the watershed areas prohibiting dogs by a governmental entity or property owner with lawful authority to place such signs. 
(c)  It shall be unlawful for any person to allow any animal to enter or be in any place of worship during public services or in any public school building while school is in session, except when authorized by a teacher or administrator at said school involved with said instruction, except that this subsection shall not apply to police service animals or assistance animals. A violation of this subsection shall be an infraction. 
(d)  It shall be unlawful for any person to allow any animal to enter any public property where it is prohibited by a government-authorized sign or other reasonable means of notification, except police service animals and assistance animals. A violation of this subsection shall be an infraction. 
(e)  It shall be unlawful for any person having care, custody or control of any animal to allow the animal to be present at any government-sponsored public gathering, including, but limited to, outdoor events and parades. This prohibition applies even though the animal may be leashed, caged or otherwise confined. This prohibition does not apply to assistance or police service animals, and does not apply to instances where the animals are specifically invited by an authorized organizer of the event. The Chief of Police or the Animal Services Director may exempt certain events from this prohibition. When such an exemption is declared, signs may be posted at significant locations informing participants of the special exemption. 
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 3-1-14) Sec. 12-1-15. - Restraint of Guard and Attack Dogs. 
(a)  Every owner of a guard or attack dog shall keep such dog securely confined in a building, compartment, cage or other enclosure so that it cannot escape. 
(b)  The provisions of this section shall not apply to dogs owned or controlled by government law enforcement agencies. 
(c)  For purposes of this section, a guard or attack dog shall mean a dog trained to attack on command or the primary purpose of which is to protect persons or property. 
(d)  A violation of this section shall be a Class B misdemeanor. 
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 3-1-15) Sec. 12-1-16. - Animals Attacking Persons and Other Animals. 
(a)  Attacking animals. It shall be unlawful for the owner, custodian, or person having charge, care, custody or control of any animal, to allow or fail to prevent said animal to attack, bite, chase or worry any person, any domestic animal or fowl, or any species of hoofed or protected wildlife. The term "worry," as used in this subsection, shall mean to cause apprehension or fear or to harass by menacing, growling, snapping, tearing, biting or shaking with the teeth, or approaching aggressively while unconfined or not tethered on a leash. 
(b)  Custodian liability. A custodian in violation of Subsection (a) of this section shall be strictly liable for a violation of this section by an animal in his care. 
(c)  Mitigating Factors. The following factors may be considered in determining the penalties, restitution, or may be considered by the prosecutor in recommending the dismissal of the charge: 
(1)  That the custodian of the animal took reasonable precautions to confine or control the animal; 
(2)  That the animal was deliberately or maliciously provoked; or 
(3)  That the animal was responding to pain or injury. 
(d)  Violation. A violation of this section shall be a Class B misdemeanor. 
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 3-1-16) Sec. 12-1-17. - Nuisance Animals. 
(a)  Any owner or custodian or an animal causing a nuisance as defined in this subsection shall be in violation of this title and subject to the penalties provided herein. A nuisance animal is any animal that unreasonably annoys humans, endangers the life or health of persons or other animals, or substantially interferes with the rights of citizens, other than their owners, to enjoyment of life or property. The term "nuisance animal" shall include, but not be limited to, an animal which: 
(1)  Causes damage to the property of anyone other than its owner; 
(2)  Is a dangerous dog as defined in Section 12-3-2 at large, or a prohibited animal pursuant to Section 12-3-3(d) at large; 
(3)  Causes unreasonable fouling of the air by odors; 
(4)  Causes unsanitary conditions in its enclosure, cage, yard or surroundings; 
(5)  Defecates on any public sidewalk, park, or building or on any private property without the consent of the owner of such private property; unless the person having custody of such animal or his agent shall immediately remove the feces to a proper trash receptacle. This subsection shall not be applicable to cases where a person is legally blind or so disabled as to be unable to pick up the feces when such person is being assisted by a service animal; 
(6)  Continuously or persistently barks, whines, growls or howls, or makes other noises or engages in other behavior which unreasonably disturbs the peace or causes unreasonable annoyance or disturbance to individuals in proximity to the premises where the animal is kept or resides; 
(7)  Though confined on the custodian's premises, jumps on fencing, lunges toward passersby, or behaves in a menacing or attacking manner so as to prevent the neighboring occupants or their guests from the quiet enjoyment of their property; 
(8)  Molests passersby or chases passing vehicles or bicycles; 
(9)  Is found running at large two or more times within any 12-month period while owned by or in the custody of the same person, except that this subsection shall not apply to a feral or community cat if it has been trapped, ear-tipped and vaccinated; 
(10)  Is seriously offensive or a danger to the health, safety or welfare of the public; 
(11)  By virtue of the number of animals maintained at a single place or residence, is determined by the Division or Salt Lake Valley Health Department to be offensive or dangerous to the public health, welfare or safety, or unsafe or unhealthy for the animal. 
A violation of Subsection (a)(10) of this section shall be a Class B misdemeanor; a violation of any other provision or this Subsection (a) shall be a Class C misdemeanor. 
(b)  A court may require a dog, its owner or custodian to compete obedience and/or behavior training or other classes or training related to dog behavior or training approved by court. 
(c)  A court may reduce fines or other penalties if a dog, its owner or custodian have completed obedience and/or behavior training classes approved by the court. 
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 3-1-17) 
State Law reference— Authority relative to nuisances, U.C.A. 1953, § 10-8-60. Sec. 12-1-18. - Revocation of Animal License. 
If the custodian of any animal is convicted of violating this chapter two or more times within any 12-month period, the Animal Services Director may seek a court order revoking any animal license such person may possess and impound any animals kept by the person under such order. Any animal impounded pursuant to such an order shall be dealt with in accordance with the provisions of this chapter for impounded animals, except that the person under the order of revocation shall not be allowed to redeem or keep the animal under any circumstances. 
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 3-1-18) Sec. 12-1-19. - Bites. 
(a)  In the event a mammal bites a person or another mammal, or in the event a mammal or minor child is reasonably believed to have come into contact with an animal infected with rabies, the custodian of the mammal or the legal guardian of the minor child shall immediately report such exposure and information about the contact to the Division, the Police Department, or the Salt Lake County Health Department, including the date, time, and location of the contact, a description and identity of the animals or persons involved in the contact, if known, and other information reasonably needed to locate and treat or quarantine the persons or animals involved in such contact. 
(b)  If any animal bites or attacks a person or another animal and thereby causes death, a puncture wound or laceration, whether or not the wound otherwise requires medical attention, or if any mammal is exposed to rabies, such animal may be immediately impounded by the Division without a court order if otherwise allowed by law, and held at the custodian's expense until order of the Director or a court of competent jurisdiction. Any such animal shall be deemed a dangerous animal by the Animal Services Division, which may seek a court order that the animal is dangerous, is a nuisance, or, if a dog, that it is a dangerous dog as defined herein. The Division shall promptly serve notice upon the custodian of the animal's impoundment. 
(c)  The custodian or owner of any animal which bites a person or another person's animal shall promptly provide to such person the name and address of the custodian and (if a different person than the custodian) the owner, proof of the biting animal's rabies vaccination, and shall provide in writing to the person who was bitten, or if that person is a minor, then to the parent or guardian of the minor, or to the custodian of the animal which was bitten, any information about the custodian and owner's insurance which might reasonably be believed to cover the treatment and injury, and any information about the biting animal's likelihood of having rabies. 
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 3-1-19) Sec. 12-1-20. - Control of Rabies and Rabid Animals. 
(a)  Rabies Vaccination Required for Dogs and Cats. The custodian of a cat or dog four months of age or over shall have said animal vaccinated against rabies within 30 days after it reaches said age. Any person permitting any such animal to habitually be on or remain, or be lodged or fed within such person's house, yard, or premises shall be responsible for said vaccination. Unvaccinated dogs and cats over four months of age shall be vaccinated within 30 days of purchase, acquisition, or care of said animal. Every dog and cat shall be re-vaccinated thereafter not less frequently than every 36 months, with a modified virus rabies vaccine approved by the Salt Lake Valley Health Department. This provision shall not apply to licensed veterinarian or kennel operators temporarily maintaining animals owned by others on their premises. 
(b)  Transient Animals. It shall be unlawful to bring any animal into Sandy City which does not comply with the provisions of this title, or State and local health laws and import regulations. 
(c)  Impoundment of a Mammal Without Valid Rabies Vaccination Tag. 
(1)  Any dog or cat four months of age or older may be impounded by the Division if no evidence of current rabies vaccination is present. The impounded animal may be reclaimed by its custodian by furnishing proof that the animal has received a rabies vaccination as required herein, and payment of all fines and license and impoundment fees which are owed for the animal prior to release An impounded feral or community cat which is in good health or which can be restored to good health in a reasonable period of time, as determined by the Director, shall be spayed or neutered if such procedures have not already been performed on the animal, vaccinated against rabies and any other diseases provided for by Division policy (if the Division has no reasonable evidence that the animal has current vaccination), ear-tipped if not already ear-tipped, and if no person adopts it released in the vicinity where the cat was captured. 
(2)  Animals shall be disposed of pursuant to Section 12-1-23. Any unvaccinated dog or cat may be reclaimed by the animal's owner or custodian prior to disposal by payment of fines and license and impound fees which are owed, and by showing proof that the animal has received a rabies vaccination and any other vaccinations as required by this title. Evidence of the proof of vaccination shall be provided to the Division within 14 days of the animal's release by the Division. 
(3)  Any animal not reclaimed prior to destruction shall be disposed of pursuant to the provisions of Section 12-1-23. 
(d)  Quarantining and Disposition of Biting or Rabid Animals. 
(1)  An animal that has rabies or which is reasonably believed to have rabies, and every mammal bitten by another animal reasonably believed to have rabies shall immediately be confined to a secure place by the custodian. The custodian shall turn over the animal to the Division upon demand. 
(2)  The custodian of any animal of a species subject to rabies which has been bitten by another animal reasonably believed to have rabies shall surrender the animal to an authorized Division or Valley Health Department or Utah State Department of Health official upon demand. 
a.  Any person authorized to enforce this chapter may enter upon private property to seize an animal that has rabies or reasonably believed to have rabies; if the custodian refuses to surrender the animal, the officer may obtain a search warrant or court order authorizing seizure and impoundment of the animal as allowed by law. 
(3)  Any animal of a species subject to rabies that bites a person or animal which is reasonably believed to have rabies may be seized and quarantined for observation for a period of not less than ten days by the Division and/or the Salt Lake Valley Health Department. The custodian of the animal shall bear the costs of quarantine. The Sandy City Animal Shelter shall be the normal place for quarantine, but other arrangements, including confinement by the custodian, may be made or approved by the Animal Services Director and/or the Director of Salt Lake Valley Health Department if the animal had a current rabies vaccination at the time the bite was inflicted or if there are other special circumstances justifying the exception. 
a.  A person who has custody of an animal under quarantine shall immediately notify the Division if the animal shows any signs of sickness or abnormal behavior, or if the animal escapes confinement. It shall be unlawful for any person who has custody of a quarantined animal to fail or refuse to allow a Health Department or Division officer to make an inspection of the animal during the period of quarantine. A violation of this subsection shall be a Class B misdemeanor. 
b.  If the animal dies within a 30-day period from the date of the bite, the person having custody of the animal shall immediately notify the Division and shall immediately deliver the animal or its head to the Health Laboratory of Epidemiology and Laboratory Services to be examined for rabies. If, at the end of the 30-day period, the Director of Animal Services examines the animal and finds no sign of rabies, the animal may be released to the custodian, or, in the case of a stray, it shall be disposed of as provided in Section 12-1-23. A violation of this subsection by an animal's custodian shall be a Class B misdemeanor. 
(4)  Any wild or feral mammal that bites or scratches a person or animal or that is reasonably suspected of having rabies may be seized and euthanized for examination of rabies pursuant to Utah Department of Health rules and regulations. 
(5)  Unvaccinated bitten or exposed animals. 
a.  In the case of an unvaccinated animal species subject to rabies which is known or reasonably suspected to have been bitten, scratched by or otherwise exposed to a known rabid animal, said bitten or exposed animal shall be immediately destroyed, and the carcass disposed of in a way that other animals may not come in contact with it. 
b.  If the custodian is unwilling to destroy the bitten or exposed animal, the animal shall be immediately isolated and quarantined for six months under veterinary supervision, or other quarantine arrangement approved in writing by the Director, the cost of such quarantine to be paid by the custodian. The animal shall be destroyed if the custodian does not comply herewith. The custodian shall immediately notify the Division of the location of the place of quarantine, and shall immediately notify the Division if the animal is moved or dies. 
(6)  Vaccinated bitten animals. 
a.  If an animal which is known or reasonably suspected to have been bitten by or exposed to a rabid animal known or reasonably suspected of being rabid has been vaccinated, the animal shall be re-vaccinated within 24 hours and quarantined for a period of 30 days following re-vaccination; or 
b.  If the animal is not re-vaccinated within 24 hours, the animal shall be isolated and quarantined under veterinary supervision for six months. 
The animal shall be taken by the Division for treatment and processing if the custodian does not comply with Subsection (d)(6)a or b of this section, and may be euthanized by the Division if it shows symptoms of rabies. 
(7)  Removal of quarantined animal. It shall be unlawful for any person to remove any such animal from the place of quarantine without written permission from the Division. 
(e)  Rabies Epidemic. Notwithstanding the other provisions of this section, whenever the Mayor or Council of Sandy City, upon the recommendation of the Salt Lake County Health Department, the Animal Services Director, or the Chief of Police, shall determine and declare that any disease epidemic exists within the City by reason of rabies, or for any other disease or cause related to animals, and that it is necessary to protect and preserve the public health and safety, the Council of the City shall, by resolution, declare and determine the existence of an epidemic of such disease, and thereupon it shall be the duty of the Director and the Chief of Police of the City when so directed by the Mayor or Chief Administrative Officer, and until such time as it may be determined by the Mayor or said Council that such disease epidemic no longer exists, to immediately destroy or cause to be destroyed, in the event such epidemic is one of rabies, any dog which may have bitten any person, dog, or other animal, or which, in the judgment of an officer of the Salt Lake County Health Department, is suffering from the disease of rabies, and to immediately destroy, or cause to be immediately destroyed, the dog, and such other animal, during the existence of such epidemic, which is declared to be an imminent menace to the public health and safety. During the continuance of such epidemic, any person owning any dog within the City shall keep such dog muzzled at all times while it is at large, and any dog un-muzzled and running at large upon any of the public streets, lanes, alleys, or other public places of the City during the epidemic shall be impounded and destroyed whether or not such dog is suffering from rabies. Any member of the Division and the Police Department is authorized to enforce the provisions hereof. 
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 3-1-20) Sec. 12-1-21. - Impounding—Animals to be Impounded. 
(a)  The Division shall place all animals which it takes into custody in the Sandy City Animal Shelter or other facility designated by the Director. The following animals may be taken into custody by the Division, and impounded: 
(1)  Any animal being kept or maintained contrary to provisions of this chapter; 
(2)  Any animal running at large contrary to the provisions of this chapter; 
(3)  Any animal which is required to be licensed by this chapter and is not licensed. An animal not wearing a tag shall be presumed to be unlicensed for purposes of this section, with the exception of community or feral cats; 
(4)  Sick or injured animals whose custodian cannot be located; 
(5)  Any abandoned animal, excluding community and feral cats; 
(6)  Animals for which the Division has no or inadequate evidence of a current vaccination for rabies in accordance with the requirements of this chapter; 
(7)  Any animal to be held for quarantine; 
(8)  Any dangerous dog not properly muzzled, restrained and confined as required in Chapter 12-3 or which otherwise fails to comply with Chapter 12-3; 
(9)  Any animal which has been abused, neglected or treated cruelly while in custody of the same person who presently has custody; 
(10)  Any animal which has bitten or attacked a person or another animal without provocation, or which is reasonably suspected of having rabies; 
(11)  Any animal which poses a threat to the health or safety of persons, property, or other animals. 
(b)  Notwithstanding anything in this section to the contrary, a feral or community cat running at large that has been trapped, ear-tipped and for which there is evidence of a current rabies vaccination need not be impounded under this section merely because it is running at large. 
(c)  Upon impoundment by the Division, and except where emergency conditions or a technical failure otherwise prevent, each non-wild animal shall be promptly scanned with a universal microchip scanner, a photograph taken, and a reasonably detailed description of the animal prepared. The photograph and description shall be posted on the Division's website within one business day. 
(d)  Upon impoundment by the Division, all cats and dogs shall be vaccinated against highly contagious diseases when the vaccines can be safely administered and are readily available within budget constraints. At a minimum, cats shall be vaccinated against rhinotracheitis, calicivirus, panleukopenia and chlamydiosis (FVRCP); and dogs shall be vaccinated against bBordetella (kennel cough), canine distemper, canine andenovirus hepatitis/respiratory, parainfluenza, coronavirus/parvovirus and leptospirosis (DHPP and Lepto). Vaccines shall be administered according to American Veterinary Medical Association guidelines. 
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 3-1-21; Ord. No. HYPERLINK "http://newords.municode.com/readordinance.aspx?ordinanceid=963395&datasource=ordbank" 19-15 , § 1(Exh. A), 6-11-2019) Sec. 12-1-22. - Same—Records to be Kept. 
The impounding facility shall keep a record of each animal impounded which includes the following information: 
(1)  Complete detailed information about the animal including the approximate size and weight of the animal, vaccinations administered upon intake, its breed(s), if it can reasonably be determined, its color, markings, sex, and other information which the Animal Services Director deems appropriate, including license tag numbers; 
(2)  The manner and date of impound; 
(3)  The location of the pickup and the name of the officer or person picking up the animal; 
(4)  The manner, reason for and date of disposal; 
(5)  The name, email address and address of the redeemer or purchaser; 
(6)  The name and address of any person relinquishing an animal to the impound facility; 
(7)  All fees and costs incurred and received for keeping an animal; and 
(8)  All expenses accruing during impoundment. 
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 3-1-22; Ord. No. HYPERLINK "http://newords.municode.com/readordinance.aspx?ordinanceid=963395&datasource=ordbank" 19-15 , § 1(Exh. A), 6-11-2019) Sec. 12-1-23. - Impounding, Euthanization; Disposition of Animals. 
(a)  Sandy City shall not euthanize healthy or animals for which rehabilitation is reasonably possible. 
(b)  Animals shall be impounded for a minimum of five business days before further disposition, except as otherwise provided herein. Reasonable effort shall be made to notify the custodian of any animal wearing a license or other identification during that time. If the custodian is found, the animal shall be promptly released to the custodian unless otherwise provided by law. Notice shall be deemed given when sent to the last-known address of the listed custodian. An animal voluntarily relinquished to the Division by the custodian thereof for disposition, other than holding it for a minimum of five business days, need not be kept for the minimum holding period before release or other disposition as herein provided. Feral cats are exempt from the five-business-day holding period according to the Community Cat Act, U.C.A. 1953, § 11-46-301 et seq. 
(c)  A dog or cat may not be transferred to another person other than the custodian or owner of the animal unless the dog or cat has been sterilized, except as hereinafter provided. 
(d)  An animal shelter may not transfer a dog or cat for adoption that has not been sterilized, except as follows: 
(1)  To a qualified rescue organization; 
(2)  If the dog or cat is younger than six months of age, then within 30 days after the dog or cat becomes six months of age; and 
(3)  The animal shelter receives from the recipient a sterilization deposit as to be held to assure that the sterilization is performed as provided hereafter, the terms of which are part of the written agreement executed by the recipient under this section. 
(e)  Sterilization deposit. 
(1)  A sterilization deposit is a deposit that is refundable to the recipient if proof of sterilization of the dog or cat within the appropriate time limits as set forth in the agreement is presented to the animal shelter not more than three months after the date the dog or cat is sterilized. 
(2)  A sterilization deposit is forfeited to the animal shelter if proof of sterilization is not presented to the animal shelter in compliance with Subsection (e)(1) of this section. 
(3)  Sterilization deposits shall be set by the City Council and shall reflect the average cost of a sterilization of a dog or cat, based on the gender and weight of the dog or cat, that is reasonably available in the area where the animal shelter is located, but the deposit may not be less than $25.00. 
(4)  If a female dog or cat and her litter are transferred to one person, a sterilization deposit is required only for the female dog or cat. The fee does not apply to a qualified rescue organization. 
(5)  All sterilization deposits forfeited or unclaimed under this section shall be retained by the animal shelter and shall be used by the animal shelter only for: 
a.  A program to sterilize dogs and cats; 
b.  A public education program, to reduce and prevent overpopulation of animals and the related costs to local governments; 
c.  A follow-up program to assure that dogs and cats transferred by the animal shelter are sterilized in accordance with the agreement executed under Subsection (e)(1) of this section; and 
d.  Any additional costs incurred by the animal shelter in the administration of the requirements of this section. 
(f)  Failure to comply with the sterilization agreement. If a recipient fails to comply with the sterilization agreement under Subsection (e)(1) of this section: 
(1)  The failure is grounds for seizure and impoundment of the cat or dog by the animal shelter from whom the recipient obtained the cat or dog; 
(2)  The recipient relinquishes all ownership rights regarding the cat or dog and any claim to expenses incurred in maintenance and care of the dog or cat; and 
(3)  The recipient forfeits the sterilization deposit. 
(g)  The term "proof of sterilization" means a written document signed by a veterinarian stating: 
(1)  A specified animal has been sterilized; 
(2)  The location where the sterilization was performed. 
(h)  Any licensed animal impounded and having or suspected of having serious injury or disease requiring medical attention may, in the discretion of the Director, be released to the care of a veterinarian with the consent of the custodian. When, in the judgment of the Director, it is determined that an unidentified or unclaimed stray animal should be destroyed to prevent unnecessary suffering due to serious injury or disease which cannot reasonably be treated within budget constraints, such animal may be destroyed without regard to any time limitations otherwise established herein, and without court order. 
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 3-1-23) 
State Law reference— Sterilization of impounded animals, U.C.A. 1953, § 11-46-203. Sec. 12-1-24. - Impounding, Redemption. 
(a)  The custodian of any impounded animal may redeem such animal before disposition, provided the custodian complies with the following: 
(1)  Payment of the impound fee in the amount set by resolution of the Sandy City Council; 
(2)  Payment of the daily board charge; 
(3)  Payment of veterinary costs incurred during the impound period, including rabies vaccination; and 
(4)  Payment of license fees due. 
(b)  The Division caring for animals pursuant to this section has a claim against its owner for the reasonable cost of its care and destruction. 
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 3-1-24) Sec. 12-1-25. - Community Cat Program; Feral Cats Impoundment and Disposition. 
(a)  Sandy City hereby establishes a community cat program pursuant to U.C.A. 1953, § 11-46-303. 
(b)  Notwithstanding the minimum holding period identified in Section 12-1-23, the Sandy City Animal Shelter and Adoption Center shall operate a trap-neuter-return program. Impounded cats identified as feral or community cats which are in good health and which do not pose a threat to the health or safety of persons or other domesticated animals shall be released within a reasonable proximity to the place where they were trapped or picked up. 
(1)  Each feral or community cat trapped or picked up under this Subsection (b) which is delivered to the Division shall be sterilized, identified by ear-tipping and rabies-vaccinated prior to return. 
(2)  The return of a feral or community cat under the provisions of this section shall not be considered abandoned under the provisions of Section 12-1-21. 
(c)  The Director (or his designee) has discretion to refuse release of a feral or community cat if the cat is reasonably believed to carry disease, or to be a threat to persons, property, or other domesticated animals. 
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 3-1-25) 
State Law reference— Community Cat Act, U.C.A. 1953, § 11-46-301 et seq. Sec. 12-1-26. - Leaving Animals in Vehicles. 
A person is guilty of a Class B misdemeanor if the person, without legal privilege to do so, intentionally, knowingly, recklessly, or with criminal negligence confines an animal in an unattended enclosed motor vehicle, an enclosed container or other space when the outside temperature is above 60 degrees Fahrenheit and there are indications that the animal is in distress. 
(1)  For purposes of this section, indications that the animal is in distress include, but are not limited to, the following signs: 
a.  The animal is panting, listless, or apparently unconscious; 
b.  The animal shows signs of thirst; 
c.  There is no water or insufficient water available for the animal to drink; 
d.  No air conditioning is running to cool the temperature in the vehicle or other space; or 
e.  Scratching, whining, or other sounds of distress. 
(2)  For purposes of this section, the term "other space" shall not include a home, garage, or building larger than 150 square feet in area. 
(3)  Any law enforcement officer or agent of a licensed humane organization may take action reasonably necessary to rescue a confined animal endangered by extreme temperatures, and to remove the threat of further serious harm. 
(4)  No officer or agent taking action under this section shall be liable for damage reasonably necessary to rescue the confined animal. 
(5)  The Animal Control Officer or other officer shall have the authority to remove any animal found in an enclosed vehicle, enclosed container or other space that appears to be suffering from heat stress. The animal may be provided immediate veterinary care if needed in the Officer's judgment. The animal's custodian shall be responsible for all expenses incurred during the removal of the animal or its subsequent treatment, including veterinary treatment, and impoundment. 
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 3-1-26) 
State Law reference— Cruelty to animals, U.C.A. 1953, § 76-9-301 et seq. Sec. 12-1-27. - Sale of Animals. 
(a)  It is unlawful for any person to display, offer for sale, deliver, barter, auction, give away, transfer, rent, lease, or sell any live dog, cat, or rabbit in any pet shop, retail business, or other commercial establishment located in the City of Sandy, Utah, unless the dog, cat, or rabbit was obtained from a City or County animal shelter or animal control agency, a humane society, or a nonprofit animal rescue organization. 
(b)  All pet shops, retail businesses, or other commercial establishments selling, or boarding for the purpose of eventual sale, dogs, cats, or rabbits shall maintain a certificate of source for each of the animals and make it available upon request to Animal Control Officers, law enforcement, code compliance officials, or any other City employee charged with enforcing the provisions of this section. 
(1)  For purposes of this section, a nonprofit animal rescue organization is defined as any nonprofit corporation that is exempt from taxation under Internal Revenue Code Section 501(c)(3), whose mission and practice is, in whole or in significant part, the rescue and placement of dogs, cats, or rabbits without providing payment or other compensation to a breeder or broker; or any nonprofit organization that is not exempt from taxation under Internal Revenue Code Section 501(c)(3) but is currently an active rescue partner with a City or County shelter or humane society, whose mission is, in whole or in significant part, the rescue and placement of dogs, cats, or rabbits. 
(2)  For purposes of this section, a certificate of source is defined as any document from the source City or County animal shelter or animal control agency, humane society, or nonprofit animal rescue organization declaring the source of the dog, cat, or rabbit on the premises of the pet shop, retail business, or other commercial establishment. 
(c)  This section shall not apply to the display, offer for sale, delivery, bartering, auction, giving away, transfer, or sale of dogs, cats, or rabbits from the premises on which they were bred and reared. 
(d)  Nothing in this section shall prevent the owner, operator, or employees of a pet shop, retail business, or other commercial establishment located in Sandy City from providing space and appropriate care for animals owned by a City or County animal shelter or animal control agency, humane society, or nonprofit animal rescue organization and maintaining those animals at the pet shop, retail business, or other commercial establishment for the purpose of public adoption. 
(e)  Fowl. It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, offer for sale, barter or give away any fowl under two months of age in any quantity less than six. Such animals shall not be artificially dyed or colored. Nothing in this provision shall be construed to prohibit the raising of such fowl by a private individual for his personal use and consumption, provided that he shall maintain proper brooders and other facilities for the care and containment of such animals while they are in his possession. 
(f)  Premiums and novelties. It shall be unlawful for any person to offer any live animal as a premium, prize, award, novelty, or incentive to purchasing merchandise or services. 
(g)  Pet turtles. It shall be unlawful for any pet shop or other business or person to raise or sell any turtle, tortoise or terrapin under four inches front to back carapace length. 
(h)  A violation of this section shall be a Class C misdemeanor. Each dog, cat, rabbit, fowl or turtle sold or offered for sale in violation of this section shall constitute a separate offense. 
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 3-1-27; Ord. No. HYPERLINK "http://newords.municode.com/readordinance.aspx?ordinanceid=890610&datasource=ordbank" 18-12 , § 1, 5-5-2018) Sec. 12-1-28. - Wild Animals or Hybrids. 
(a)  It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, offer for sale, barter, give away, keep or purchase any wild animal as defined in Section 12-1-2, or any hybrid thereof, or any wild animal which is fierce, dangerous, vicious, noxious, or naturally inclined to do harm, or any animal which can contract rabies but which cannot be properly vaccinated for rabies as determined by the Utah Department of Health. This prohibition shall not include any State animal shelter, a zoological park, veterinary hospital, humane society shelter, public laboratory, circus sideshow, amusement show which is within Sandy City less than two weeks in any 12-month period, persons with a business license for the purpose of raising members of the Mustelidae family as a business for their pelts or musk, or facility for education or scientific purposes, and who follow all laws applicable to keeping such wild animals. The excepted entities listed in the foregoing sentence may keep such an animal if protective devices adequate to prevent such animal from escaping or endangering the public health or safety are provided. 
(b)  It shall be unlawful for any person to keep an animal of a species prohibited or protected by 50 CFR or by any regulation or law of the State of Utah. 
(c)  The City may establish a prima facie case that the animal is a wild animal upon showing that the custodian has represented that it is a wild animal, and upon presenting competent evidence that the animal exhibits a primary physical or behavioral characteristic of a wild animal. The foregoing will not prevent the City from demonstrating by any other means that the animal is a wild animal. 
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 3-1-28) Sec. 12-1-29. - Regulatory Permits. 
Commercial permits shall be unlawful for any person to operate or maintain a kennel, cattery, pet shop, groomery, riding stable or any similar establishment unless such person first obtains a business license from the Community Development Department, in addition to all other required licenses. 
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 3-1-29) Sec. 12-1-30. - Dead Animals. 
It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly to permit any dead animal to remain on his property for more than 12 hours without removing it except as provided in City ordinances; or for the custodian of any dead animal knowingly to permit the same to remain on any public property or on any premises within the City for more than 12 hours without notifying Animal Services of its location or removing it. If the custodian of the dead animal does not remove it himself or cause it to be properly removed, the City may remove it and assess a fee where a fee applies, or if no fee applies, then the City may charge the custodian the actual costs of the pickup, transport and destruction or incineration of the animal. The City may avail itself of all remedies in law and equity to enforce such removal, destruction and incineration, and to recover the costs associated therewith. 
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 3-1-30) Sec. 12-1-31. - Penalties. 
Except as otherwise provided herein, a violation of any provision of this chapter shall be a Class C misdemeanor. 
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 3-1-31) Sec. 12-1-32. - Sandy City Land Development Code Requirements. 
The keeping of animals within the City, either for personal, business or agricultural purposes, in addition to complying with the provision of this title, must also comply with the Land Development Code of Sandy City, Utah 2002, and all other ordinances of Sandy City as they may be amended hereafter. 
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 3-1-32) CHAPTER 12-2. - HOBBY LICENSEHYPERLINK \l "fn_21"[2] 

Footnotes: 
--- (2) --- 
State Law reference— Licensing of dogs, U.C.A. 1953, § 10-8-65. 
Sec. 12-2-1. - Purpose. 
It is the purpose of this chapter to create in Sandy City a hobby license which shall allow the licensee to maintain a maximum of five dogs over one year of age upon the licensed premises. 
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 3-2-1) Sec. 12-2-2. - Hobby License Requirements. 
A hobby license shall allow the custodian to keep no more than five dogs over one year of age (other than an assistance animal, a retired assistance animal, or both) in a residential area. In no event shall a person with a hobby licensee be allowed to keep any other dogs if the custodian has a dangerous dog. Such license may keep intact one litter of pups up six months of age and may thereafter keep one animal from the original litter up to an age of 12 months. At no time shall the licensee keep more than five dogs over one year of age. Nevertheless, the following requirements shall be met by the licensee: 
(1)  Statement of Hobby Interest. The applicant for a hobby license shall complete a form provided by the City, which form shall require the notarized signature of the applicant and shall indicate that the applicant desires to maintain said dogs for hobby purposes. Hobby purposes shall include, but not be limited to, the showing of dogs, training of dogs for field trials, the training of dogs for rescue, for obedience, tracking and other such purposes, and the maintaining of dogs for recreation, breeding, and sporting purposes. 
(2)  Outdoor Requirements. 
a.  The applicant shall provide dog runs with shelter to protect the dogs from foul weather, wind, and excessive exposure to natural elements. Said runs shall also be designed to prevent the escape of any dog constrained therein. 
b.  All fencing shall be of sufficient strength and of such construction to prevent the escape of or injury to any dog housed within such fencing. 
c.  All fencing shall be maintained so that no part of such fence shall be broken, damaged, or in any way pose a significant risk of injury to the enclosed dog or to allow the escape thereof. 
d.  In addition to providing the fenced animal runs, the applicant shall be required to erect a substantial fence around that portion of the yard in which the dogs are maintained sufficient to prevent the dogs' escape. 
e.  The animal runs located in the yard shall be positioned so as not to be a nuisance to any neighbor, and shall be at least 40 feet from the nearest portion of any neighboring building used as a dwelling. 
f.   No dog runs shall be located within the front yard setback area. 
g.  An opaque screen shall be provided to screen any dog run from view by surrounding persons or from surrounding properties. 
h.  An applicant for a hobby license shall submit a plot plan showing the location of the applicant's lot, the location of surrounding and adjoining lots, and shall include the location of all structures presently in place, both main and accessory, and the proposed location of any dog runs, shelters or other such structures. The Division may determine the adequacy of the applicant's plot plan. 
i.  No dog run shall be located in the side yard setback area unless specific authorization is granted pursuant to a review by the Division and the Department of Community Development. 
j.  All accessory runs, buildings, fences and other outdoor facilities must also comply with all provisions of the Land Development Code of Sandy City, Utah 2002 (Sandy Land Use Code). In the case of a conflict between the ordinances, the more restrictive provision shall apply. 
(3)  Size of Dog Runs. The dog runs required by this section shall have as a minimum size the following: 
a.  The dog run shall be no less than 32 square feet in size when the dog restrained therein is over 50 pounds in weight. 
b.  The dog run shall be no less than 18 square feet in size when the dog restrained therein is more than 15 pounds but less than 50 pounds in weight. 
c.  The dog run shall be no be less than ten square feet when the dog restrained therein is 15 pounds or less in weight. 
d.  If the applicant desires to construct dog runs which shall be communal in nature, said runs shall be proportionally larger for each additional dog therein. For example, if two dogs in a dog run both weigh over 50 pounds, then the dog run shall be at least 64 square feet in size. 
(4)  Bedding. The bedding contained in the dog runs shall meet the following requirements: 
a.  The bedding shall be of a material which may be either disposed of by sanitary means or removed and cleaned. 
b.  Newspapers or other similar material used to absorb moisture shall be removed and replaced daily, and areas beneath them cleaned and disinfected daily. All newspapers or other material removed shall be disposed of in a manner acceptable to the Salt Lake Valley Health Department. 
c.  The floors of a dog run, constructed of concrete, shall provide for a resting board or some type of bedding for the dogs restrained therein which insulates the dogs from the concrete. 
d.  If any bedding used is of a type that must be cleaned, the material shall be cleaned as often as necessary to maintain a healthy and sanitary condition. All bedding shall be kept clean and free of noxious odors. 
(5)  Cleaning of Dog Runs. 
a.  All runs shall be cleaned and disinfected as needed each day to prevent fecal accumulation. 
b.  Cleaning agents or chemicals that may be harmful to dog tissue shall not be used where there is a possibility of contact or ingestion of such agents or chemicals by the dog. 
c.  Fecal material shall be properly handled and disposed of in accordance with applicable regulations of the Salt Lake Valley Health Department. 
d.  When necessary, or under the direction of the Salt Lake Valley Health Department, the licensee shall use such chemicals and materials as may be necessary to control flies, insects or other pests. 
e.  Accumulations of fecal or other waste material or garbage in and around any dog run shall be cleaned up and properly disposed of at least daily. The dog run itself and the surrounding area shall be neat, clean and free of litter, trash garbage and noxious odors. 
(6)  Feed. The feeding of the dogs shall be governed by the following requirements: 
a.  The feed given to the animals shall be stored in a manner so as to prevent contamination from any source, and shall be stored so it does not attract rodents, vermin or other pests. 
b.  Fresh portable water shall be available to the dogs at all times. 
(7)  Noise Control. The licensee shall take such steps as may be necessary to ensure that noise generated by the dogs owned and kept by the licensee shall not be in violation of Section 12-1-17(6) or (7). 
(8)  Land Use Regulations. A hobby license shall not be granted to any applicant unless the application shall conform to all Sandy City land use regulations. 
(9)  Other Regulations. The licensee shall comply with the provisions of Chapter 12-1, except Sections 12-1-7 and 12-1-8. 
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 3-2-2) Sec. 12-2-3. - Fees and Required Vaccination. 
(a)  The fee for a hobby license shall be established by resolution of the City Council. 
(b)  The licensee shall be required to provide proof of a rabies vaccination to the Division in accordance with Section 12-1-20 for each dog kept and maintained under authority of any hobby license upon application for, or renewal of, the hobby license and upon the acquisition or substitution of any dog pursuant to the permit. 
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 3-2-3) Sec. 12-2-4. - Renewal of Hobby License and Inspections. 
(a)  Any hobby license issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall automatically expire 12 months after it is issued. The Division will mail a reminder to the licensee one month prior to expiration. If the licensee fails to renew the license within 30 days of expiration, the hobby license applicant shall file a new application for a hobby license. 
(b)  The Division may inspect each licensed premises at least once each year at any time with or without notice. 
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 3-2-4) Sec. 12-2-5. - Exemptions. 
Animal shelters and other animal facilities operated by State or local governments or which are licensed by Federal law, are excluded from the licensing requirements of this chapter. 
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 3-2-5) Sec. 12-2-6. - Complaints and Revocation of License. 
Complaints with regard to persons keeping and maintaining dogs under the provisions of this chapter may be resolved as follows: 
(1)  The complaint shall be investigated by the Division. 
(2)  Upon completion of such investigation of the initial complaint, the Division may, in addition to other actions, submit to the licensee requirements for removing the cause of the original complaint. Any such submittal shall include a time period in which such requirements must be implemented. 
(3)  The Division shall reinspect the premises to determine if the causes of the complaint have been removed and if the recommendations of the Division have been followed. 
(4)  Failure by the licensee to either remove the causes for the original complaint or to comply with the requirements of the Division, and to comply with all applicable laws, including this chapter and Chapter 12-1, shall be considered grounds for revocation of the license issued under authority of this chapter. 
(5)  In the event that the causes of the complaint are not removed within the time specified by the Division, a hearing for the revocation of the license granted hereunder shall be held before the Director or his designees. The hearing procedure shall provide for the following: 
a.  A written notice served upon the licensee setting forth the causes upon which the revocation of the license is based. 
b.  The opportunity for the licensee to appear at an open hearing and present evidence, appear in person or be represented by counsel, and to examine witnesses. 
c.  Upon the presentation of the evidence by the licensee and the City, the Director or his designees shall render a final decision on the license be revocation. 
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 3-2-6) Sec. 12-2-7. - Penalties. 
Any violation of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed a Class C misdemeanor unless otherwise specifically designated as a different level of offense. 
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 3-2-7) CHAPTER 12-3. - DANGEROUS AND PROHIBITED DOGS 
Sec. 12-3-1. - Purpose and Intent. 
The purposes of this chapter are to promote the public health, safety, and general welfare of the citizens of the City of Sandy, Utah. It is intended to be applicable to dangerous dogs, as defined herein, to prohibit the keeping of wild animal-dog hybrids, and to regulate certain dogs which have a history of one or more serious attacks on people or animals as defined herein, whether in Sandy or elsewhere, by ensuring responsible handling by their owners and custodians through registration, confinement, and other means provided herein. 
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 3-3-1) Sec. 12-3-2. - Definitions. 
If not otherwise defined in this section, words in this chapter shall have the same meanings as defined in Section 12-1-1, unless the context clearly suggests otherwise. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning: 
(1)  Dangerous dog means any dog that, because of its aggressive nature, training or characteristic behavior, presents a risk of serious physical harm or death to human beings, or would constitute a danger to human life, physical well-being, or property if not kept under the direct control of the custodian. This definition shall not apply to dogs utilized by law enforcement officers in the performance of their duties. The term "dangerous dog" includes any dog that, according to the records of the City Division of Animal Services, or any law enforcement agency: 
a.  Has aggressively bitten, attacked, endangered, or inflicted injury requiring medical attention on a human being on public or private property, or, without adequate provocation, has chased or approached a person upon the streets, sidewalks, or any public grounds in a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack; 
b.  Has severely injured or killed a domestic animal while off the owner's property; or 
c.  Has been used in or trained for dog fighting. 
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 3-3-2) Sec. 12-3-3. - Dangerous Dogs and Prohibited Hybrids. 
(a)  Except as provided in Section 12-1-16, a court may determine whether a dog is dangerous in any case coming before it. The following factors may be considered in determining whether a dog is dangerous, but the court may consider others in its discretion: 
(1)  Provocation in any attack by the dog; 
(2)  The nature and severity of the attack or injury to a person or domestic animal by the dog; 
(3)  Previous history of aggression of the dog or inadequate control by the custodian; 
(4)  Observable behavior of the dog; 
(5)  Site and circumstances of the incident; and 
(6)  The dog's performance on a generally accepted or otherwise reliable temperament test. 
(b)  A determination that the dog is in fact a dangerous dog as defined in Section 12-3-2 shall subject the dog and its owner to the provisions of this chapter. 
(c)  Police service animals are not dangerous dogs under this chapter when employed by a police department of the Federal, State or local government or any subdivision of a State, or of the United States, or service animals owned and employed by one of the Armed Forces of the United States. 
(d)  The following animals are prohibited and may not be kept within Sandy City: wolves, coyotes, wolf-dog hybrids, coyote-dog hybrids, and any other hybrid of a dog and a wild animal. 
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 3-3-3) Sec. 12-3-4. - Keeping of Dangerous Dogs. 
The keeping of a dangerous dog shall be subject to the following requirements, in addition to those required of all dog owners in Sandy City pursuant to Chapter 12-1: 
(1)  Leash. No person having charge, custody, control or possession of a dangerous dog shall allow the dog to be outdoors of its house, or to exit its kennel, pen or other secure enclosure unless such dog is securely attached to a leash strong enough to restrain the dog not more than six feet in length. A dangerous dog shall at all times be kept under direct physical control. 
(2)  Kept in Enclosure, Muzzle, Exercise. It shall be unlawful for any owner or custodian of a dangerous dog to allow the dog to be outside of its secure enclosure unless it is either confined indoors in the custodian's dwelling or building, or unless it is necessary for the dog to receive veterinary care, in which case the dog shall be properly leashed and muzzled with an appropriately fitted muzzle, such as a basket muzzle. Nothing in this section shall prohibit necessary exercise for a dangerous dog, provided that it is in the immediate presence of a custodian capable of controlling the dog, and provided the dog is on non-public property within a secure fence or enclosure from which it cannot escape, and which prevents entry by small children. 
(3)  Confinement. Except when leashed, muzzled and under direct physical control, a dangerous dog shall be securely confined indoors or confined in a locked pen or other secure enclosure that is suitable to prevent the entry of children and is designed to prevent and actually prevents the dog from escaping. The enclosure shall include shelter and protection from the elements and shall provide adequate exercise room, light and ventilation. The enclosed structure shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition and shall meet the following requirements: 
a.  The enclosure must have secure sides and a secure top; 
b.  The enclosure must have a bottom permanently attached to the sides, or the sides must be securely embedded not less than one foot into the ground; 
c.  The enclosure must be of such material and closed in such a manner that the dog cannot exit the enclosure on its own; and 
d.  The enclosure shall be placed as close as practicable to the owners dwelling or building with a separate perimeter fence so that it prevents the dog from coming in contact with passersby or children, and may not be located in the front or side yard of a dwelling or other building and shall not be closer than ten feet from a property line. The enclosure shall be placed within a continuous perimeter fence which shall be at least six feet in height where the law and private property covenants and restrictions allow, shall be maintained in good repair, shall be constructed in a way so as to prevent the ready entry or exit of dogs, and shall prevent the entry of small children who are not of the custodian's family. The enclosure may not be part of or attached to the perimeter fence. 
(4)  Indoor Confinement. No dangerous dog shall be kept on a porch, patio or in any part of a house or structure that would allow the dog to exit such building on its own volition. In addition, no such dog shall be kept in a house or structure when the window screens or screen doors are the only obstacle preventing the dog from exiting the structure. 
(5)  Signs. All owners, custodians or harborers of dangerous dogs shall display in a prominent place on their premises a sign easily readable by the public using the words "Beware of Dog" on all gates to the yard in which the dog is kept and doors to the home through which guests might reasonably be expected to enter, and on all sides of the property which abut a public right-of-way. 
(6)  Notification of Escape. The owner or custodian of a dangerous dog shall notify the Division of Animal Services immediately if such dog escapes from its enclosure or restraint and is at large. Such immediate notification shall also be required if the dog bites or attacks a person or domestic animal. 
(7)  Notification to Custodian. A custodian or owner must notify another person taking custody or ownership of a dog determined dangerous by a court under Section 12-3-3(a) that the dog has been determined to be a dangerous dog, and of the requirements that must be met in keeping the dog under this section. 
(8)  Failure to Comply. It shall be unlawful and a misdemeanor for any owner or custodian of a dangerous dog to fail to comply with the requirements and conditions set forth in this section. Any dog found to be in violation of this section shall be subject to immediate seizure and impoundment. In addition, failure to comply with the requirements and conditions set forth in this section shall result in the revocation of the dog's license and the permit providing for the keeping of such animal. 
(9)  Microchip. Every owner of a dangerous dog shall implant a microchip on the dog before registering it with the Division of Animal Services. 
(10)  No More than One Dangerous Dog. In no event shall a person be allowed to keep any other dogs (other than an assistance animal, a retired assistance animal, or both) if the person has a dangerous dog. 
(11)  Other Conditions. A court may impose other conditions on the keeping of a dangerous dog, including, but not limited to, maintaining liability insurance and surety bonds, training of animals or custodians, and sterilizing the dog. 
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 3-3-4) Sec. 12-3-5. - License and Tag Required for Dangerous Dogs; Applicability to Nonresidents. 
(a)  The owner of a dangerous dog shall, within 14 days after establishing a residence in Sandy, or if the owner has already established a residence in Sandy, then upon acquisition of such a dog, obtain a license from the Division of Animal Services to harbor the dog. The fee for such permit shall be determined by the City Council. The owner shall disclose on a dog license application form provided by the Division whether the owner has homeowner's insurance, and, if so, the name of the insurance carrier and the policy number, which shall be public information, and which shall be disclosed, upon request, to any person who sustains an injury caused by the dog. 
(b)  At the time the license is issued, the Division shall issue a highly visible tag to the owner of the dangerous dog identifying it as such a dog. The tag shall be worn at all times by the dog. 
(c)  The permit for maintaining a dangerous dog shall be presented to an Animal Services Officer upon demand. 
(d)  Any person who brings into Sandy City a dog which has been determined dangerous by a court or body having jurisdiction over the owner or the dog, shall at all times comply with the provisions of Chapter 12-1 and this chapter which are applicable to the dog and owner, including this section. 
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 3-3-5) 
State Law reference— Licensing of dogs, U.C.A. 1953, § 10-8-65. Sec. 12-3-6. - Change of Ownership. 
(a)  Any owner of a dangerous dog who sells or otherwise transfers ownership, custody or residence of the dog shall, within ten business days after such change of ownership or residence, provide written notification to the Division of Animal Services of the name, address and telephone number of the new owner. It also shall be the responsibility of the person transferring ownership or custody of a dangerous dog to provide written notification of the dog's classification as dangerous to the person receiving the dog. The previous owner shall furnish a copy of such notification to the Division of Animal Services along with written acknowledgment by the new owner of his receipt of such notification, and the name, address, and telephone number of the new owner. 
(b)  Any person receiving ownership or custody of a dog classified as dangerous must obtain the required permit, tag and enclosure prior to acquisition of the dog. The new owner shall comply fully with the provisions of this chapter, including those pertaining to payment of fees, and maintenance, control and ownership of such a dog. 
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 3-3-6) Sec. 12-3-7. - Continuation of Dangerous Dog Declaration. 
Any dog that has been declared dangerous by any agency or department of this City, another municipality, county, or state shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter for so long as the dog remains in the City. The person owning or having custody of any dog designated as a dangerous dog by any municipality, county, or state government shall notify the Division of Animal Services of the dog's address and conditions of maintenance within ten days of moving the animal into the City of Sandy. The restrictions and conditions of maintenance of any dog declared dangerous by this City, another municipality, county, or state shall remain in force while the dog remains in the City. 
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 3-3-7) Sec. 12-3-8. - Penalties. 
Except as otherwise stated herein, a violation of any provision of this chapter shall be a Class B misdemeanor. 
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 3-3-8) CHAPTER 12-4. - PROHIBITION ON FEEDING DEER 
Sec. 12-4-1. - Purpose. 
(a)  Sandy City has within its limits urban deer in such numbers that they are a threat to the safety of people and property and constitute a public nuisance. Such threats include, but are not necessarily limited to: 
(1)  Threats to native plants and animal life through excessive foraging which disturbs natural ecological balances; 
(2)  Threats in transmitting diseases to humans from deer; 
(3)  Threats that increase the likelihood of deer-vehicle collisions; and 
(4)  Threats to the quality of life by deer-related damage to landscaping and vegetable gardens. 
(b)  This chapter is intended to reduce these threats by prohibiting the feeding of deer so as not to actively encourage their presence. 
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 3-4-1) Sec. 12-4-2. - Prohibition on Supplemental Deer Feeding. 
(a)  Except as provided herein, it is unlawful for any person to intentionally feed or make food available for consumption by deer, elk or moose on private or public property. This includes any fruit, grain, hay, salt licks, vegetables, nuts, seeds or other material placed outdoors for consumption by deer. 
(b)  Each property owner shall remove any materials placed on the owner's property for the purpose of feeding deer, elk or moose. Failure to remove such materials within 24 hours of notice from the City shall constitute a Class C misdemeanor. 
(c)  Any materials placed for the purpose of feeding deer, elk or moose are hereby declared to be a public nuisance, which may be abated summarily by civil action, or by criminal prosecution. 
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 3-4-2) Sec. 12-4-3. - Exemptions. 
(a)  This chapter does not apply to City police officers, Animal Control Officers, or Federal or State wildlife officials who are acting within the scope of their authority. 
(b)  This chapter does not apply to naturally growing vegetation, or to planted vegetation growing in yards, gardens or beds. 
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 3-4-3) 








Exhibit A




