                               MEMORANDUM
                                         August 20, 2020


 To:          Planning Commission
 From:        Community Development Department
 Subject:     Challenger School Sandy (Preliminary Site Plan                    SPR-06-20-5869
              Review)                                                                  Zone: CN
              10670 S. 700 E.                                                 Approx. 7.89 Acres
              [Community #11 – Crescent]


HEARING NOTICE: This item has been noticed to property owners within 500 feet of the subject
                area.



                                PROPERTY CASE HISTORY
  Case Number                                     Case Summary
 SPR #77-15          Ream’s Market – Site Plan Approval
 SPR #78-31          Ream’s Addition – Site Plan Approval
 CUP #92-10          Ream’s - Conditional Use Approval
 SPR #92-20          Ream’s Grocery Store - Site Plan Approval
 SUB-08-19-5699      Lot Line Adjustment approved August 29, 2019

DESCRIPTION OF REQUEST
The applicant, Challenger School Foundation, is requesting preliminary site plan review and a
conditional use permit for Challenger School Sandy. The proposal will encompass approximately
7.89 acres. The applicant is not requesting any exceptions in association with this application. All
provisions of the base zone will be adhered to through the review and approval process. An
associated staff report addresses the conditional use permit application.

BACKGROUND

The proposed site plan is located in the CN zone (Planned Center – Neighborhood District). The
school site is located where a Ream’s Grocery Store was previously located. The property is
bordered on the north by a SuperSonic Car Wash in the CN zone. To the west are residential
properties that are located in the R-1-15A, R-1-20A, and R-1-40A zones. To the south is a
Challenger School Sandy – SPR-06-20-5869                                                    Page - 2 -


PUD(10) zone that is currently being reviewed for a potential planned unit development of 40
townhomes. Finally, to the east is the frontage along 700 E. Across the street on 700 E. is a
McNeil’s Car Care (zoned CN), and also residential uses in the PUD(8) zone.

NOTICE
Notices were mailed to property owners within a 500 foot radius of the subject parcels as per Sandy
City Land Development Code requirements, to notify of the Planning Commission meeting.
Additionally, planning staff held a neighborhood meeting on July 8, 2020, which had 15 residents
in attendance. Residents expressed concerns related to the possible need for a median on 700 E.;
the need for and type of fencing between the school and the adjacent residences; potential
nuisances from sporting events or mass gatherings; as well as sufficiency of parking for those
activities.

ANALYSIS
City staff and departments have reviewed and recommend preliminary site plan review is
complete, subject to their normal requirements and specifications. The site plan meets nearly all
zoning requirements. It is unclear on the plans whether the required 10 feet of landscaping is
present along the entire length of the west property line, but it will be required.

The building is set back far from the rear property line, and the tallest part of the building, which
is located in the middle of the school, is approximately 29 feet tall, so the height in relation to the
adjacent residential lots is very reasonable.

The outdoor activity areas will be used only during typical daytime hours, and there are no facilities
for sporting events or tournaments that would cause any nuisance during nighttime hours or
weekends. The entrances to the rear of the school will be gated off during non-school hours to help
prevent access for undesirable activities.

There are 199 parking stalls proposed for the school. The Land Development Code does not
prescribe a specific parking stall number or ratio for schools. Instead, it leaves it to the discretion
of the Planning Commission. Because of the lack of large events and gatherings, staff feels
comfortable with the amount of parking stalls proposed. Automobile traffic patterns and queuing
for drop-offs and pick-ups will be contained completely on site and will not spill over onto 700 E.
For the types of events that will be held there, such as graduations, they will be small enough to
easily be accommodated by the parking provided in the lot.

GRADING

The grade of the school will be approximately 9 feet lower than the street grade along 700 East,
and will be approximately 10 feet higher than the adjacent residences to the west. This change in
grade is largely mitigated by the relatively short height of the building and its significant distance
from the residential-adjacent property lines. Buildings in the CN zone are restricted to a maximum
height of 40 feet, and the tallest portion of this building, which is at the center of the school, is
only approximately 29 feet tall. The portions of the school nearest to the residences are
approximately 23 feet tall.
Challenger School Sandy – SPR-06-20-5869                                                     Page - 3 -


Staff is reaching out to the engineer to obtain a cross section from east to west of the site, to better
show what the grading will look like. The intent is to have those cross sections available for the
Planning Commission PowerPoint presentation the evening of the meeting.

CONCERNS

It is unclear whether any cooling equipment will be mounted and visible on the roof, or if it will
be located on the ground along the perimeter of the building. If it is visible on the roof then it will
need to be screened by a parapet. Staff has requested that they call out the locations of the cooling
equipment so that we can review the plans appropriately.

While there appears to be an adequate landscape buffer of 10 feet along most of the west property
line, the dimensions are not called out, so there may be areas, especially at a pinch point at the rear
of the school that does not meet that requirement.

The plans as submitted call out a six-foot vinyl-coated chain link fence along the west property
lines. However, Sandy City’s Land Development Code requires that an eight-foot masonry wall
be constructed between commercial zones and residential zones, as is the case for this location.

Staff’s understanding is that there is a five-foot retaining wall proposed along approximately 270
feet of the northwestern boundary line of the property. The requirement is to have an eight-foot
masonry wall between the residential uses and the commercial property. This would result in a
masonry wall on top of the retaining wall, for a total of approximately 13 feet. If the residents
requested, the Planning Commission could approve a lower wall based on certain circumstances
outlined in the code section below:

Sec. 21-23-7. - Screening at Boundaries of Residential Districts.

(a) Masonry Wall. For commercial and industrial developments abutting residential districts
(except recognizable holding zones for future commercial or industrial development), an opaque
masonry wall shall be installed and maintained along all district boundaries, other than streets,
where the premises abut areas zoned for residential uses.

(b) Height. Except where otherwise provided, the opaque masonry wall shall be a minimum of
eight feet in height. If requested by the adjacent residents, the Planning Commission may
approve a lower wall based upon unusual circumstances (e.g., views, landscaping, etc.). A lower
height wall may be required adjacent to a front property line for sight distance and traffic safety.

STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission determine preliminary site plan review is
complete for the Challenger School Sandy project based on the following findings and subject to
the following conditions:

Findings:
   1. That the various City departments and divisions have preliminarily approved the
       proposed site plan.
Challenger School Sandy – SPR-06-20-5869                                               Page - 4 -


   2. That all proposed setbacks and building height meet the requirements of the CN zone.

   3. That the proposed driveway access, internal site circulation and off-street vehicle parking
      will be adequate for the proposed use of the building and site.
      Conditions:

   1. That the applicant provide elevations showing the percentage of each material used on
      the building.

   2. That landscaping meet all zone requirements, including the 10-foot landscape buffer
      requirement along the west property lines.

   3. That a landscape plan be provided showing dimensions for all landscape areas.

   4. That an eight-foot masonry wall be constructed along the entire length of the west
      property lines.

   5. That the developer proceed through final site plan review process with staff prior to the
      start of any construction (including payment of development fees and posting of an
      appropriate bond to guarantee completion of all required improvements on and off the
      site), according to the Site Plan Review Procedures Handout. The final site plan shall be
      in compliance with all Development Code requirements and those modifications
      determined by the Planning commission.

   6. That the development comply with all Building & Safety, Fire and Life Safety Codes
      applicable to this type of use.

   7. All utility boxes shall be screened from view to the extent possible (i.e. transformers,
      switch gear, telephone, cable TV, etc.) and shall be shown on the site plan and shall be
      placed underground or moved behind the front setback (minimum 30 feet from the front
      property line) and screened from view. Each box shall be shown in its exact location and
      shall be noted with its exact height, width and length and approved by staff.

   8. That the architectural design, colors and materials proposed for this development will
      comply with the Sandy City Architectural Design Standards and the details shall be
      finalized with staff prior to the issuance of a building permit.

   9. That the developer be responsible for the placement of a temporary 6 foot high chain link
      fence around the perimeter of the project during the construction phase of the project for
      security. Said fence shall also be required to include fabric to prohibit blowing dust
      problems, if it becomes necessary or if it is required by the Community Development
      Department during Site Plan Review.

   10. That the applicant comply with the Sandy City Noise Ordinance, including working
       hours during construction.
   Challenger School Sandy – SPR-06-20-5869                                                 Page - 5 -


       11. That the applicant comply with all department requirements as noted in all preliminary
           review letters prior to submittal for final site plan review.

       12. That all site signage must be reviewed separately and meet the Sandy City Development
           Code provisions for signage.

       13. That a subdivision plat be recorded on the property to consolidate the two parcels the
           applicant owns.


Planner:                                 Reviewed by:



___________________________              ___________________________
Craig Evans                              Brian McCuistion
Planner                                  Planning Director
                                           Pico St



                                                                                                                                                     I




                                                                                                       Dr




                                                                                                                                      r
                White Sands Dr




                                                                                                                    Silver Mountain D
                                                                                             Sandy P oi




                                                                                                      nt
                                      Pali St




                                 Hilo St




                                            10600 S
                                  540 E




                                                                                                                                Ct
                                                                                                                                                          Pepperell Cir




                                                                                                                                                     Carrington St
                                                                                                                     C ha
                                                                                                                                 rles                            Charleston
                                                                                                                                      t        on
1069                                                                                                                                                St              Cir
    5
        S
                                                                                                                Sh e
                                                                                                                    rato

                                                                                                          Dr
                                                                                                                             nC
                                                                                                                                          ir                 Cavendish C
                                           580 E




                                                                                                        ah
                                                                                                          ann

                                                           Subject Property
                                                                                     700 E



                                                                                                      Sa v




            10735 S
                                                             angewood Ln
                                                       Or




                                                                      Berrywood Ct




                                          Fruitwood Ln
                                                             Ct




                                 Cherry Plum Ct
                                                                                                                                                                     Pampas Dr

                                                                                                                        Pecos Dr
                         Ln




                                               Apple Tree Dr
                Tree




                                                                    SPR-06-20-5869 & CUP-07-20-5883
                                                                    Site Plan & Conditional Use Permit
                     Blosso m




                                                                                        10670 S. 700 E.
                                                                                               Feet                 PRODUCED BY CRAIG EVANS
                                           0    95   190      380    570             760     950          COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT
