                                  MEMORANDUM
                                               April 30, 2020


 To:           Planning Commission
 From:         Community Development Department
 Subject:      Princeton Terrace - Mixed Use Development – Mix Use                           SPR-07-19-5689
               Zone (MU) (Preliminary Site Plan Review)                                           5.13 Acres
               8377 South 115 East                                                                  63 units
               Community #3, Sandy Woods


HEARING NOTICE: This item has been noticed to property owners within 500 feet of the subject area.


                                     PROPERTY CASE HISTORY
  Case Number                                    Case Summary
 SPR-07-04             Previous Master Plan for the East Town Village Project. Approved. This development was
                       split nearly in half with 232 units built in the Midvale side (nearly built out). The Sandy
                       half was approved for a Mixed-Use Master Plan by the Planning Commission on June 21,
                       2007. This included a total of 315 residential units and 20,580 sq. ft. of (commercial
                       office/retail) space to be built out in two phases. Only Phase 1 proceeded to Final approval
                       (granted on November 1, 2007). Phase 2 never progressed beyond preliminary review.
 SPR-3-10-1203         The developer was approved to revise their plans to a scaled down first phase of
                       development to include only 22 townhome units and the clubhouse. The rest of the
                       development was to be built out in multiple smaller phases. The last few townhomes of this
                       phase are nearing completion.
 SPR-4-13-2848         The Planning Commission approved a revision to the East Town Village Master Plan on
                       June 6, 2013. This revision allows for a proposed apartment development on two-thirds of
                       the remaining undeveloped land of the original proposed site plan. The remaining one-third
                       of land is to be developed as originally proposed, which includes several stack flat
                       condominiums and will be part of the existing homeowner’s association.
 SPR-7-13-3055         The Planning Commission approved the architecture and site plan for the Altarra
                       Apartments at East Town Village and also granted a parking reduction for the project.
 SPR-12-14-4037        The approval given to the original Altarra Apartments (SPR-7-13-3055) expired so
                       application was made to bring the project back to the Planning Commission for their re-
                       approval. The Planning Commission approved the preliminary site plan on March 19, 2015.
 SPR-07-15-4501        The Planning Commission approved a site plan for the Pinnacle Sandy Apartments (aka
                       Axio) on August 20, 2015 for 331 apartment units.
 SPR-08-18-5472        The commercial frontage along State Street was approved for a two 2-story buildings
                       (20,790 sq. ft. of office and retail space). This was approved by the Planning Commission
                       on December 6, 2018.
Princeton Terrace – SPR-07-19-5689                                                       Page - 2 -


REQUEST
Mr. Charles Akerlow of Zenith Development has submitted an application for a preliminary site
plan of a proposed phase of the East Town Village Mixed Use Project. The proposal is the last
undeveloped part of the mixed-use master planned development that includes East Town
Village, the Axio Apartments, and the Princton Commons (office/retail building). This phase is to
be built on approximately 5.13 acres of the site along 115 East and Durham Street consisting of
63 units (12.28 units/acre). These residences are proposed to be built as three (3) different unit
types and architectural designs, and some will built by a joint development partner, Hortino, LP.
Zenith is proposing to construct 48 townhome buildings (see Elevation Type A) and five (5)
single-family pad lots. The remaining 10 townhome units are proposed to be built by Hortino, LP
(see Elevation Type B). They are working collaboratively to build out the site improvemets but
each group will be responsible for the construction of their units. However, they are all proposed
to be part of the same HOA to maintain the shared improvements and open spaces. They are not
proposing to join the existing HOA of East Town Village, so these residents won’t be able to
participate in those existing amenities. The proposal is consistent with the approved Master Plan
for the property.

BACKGROUND
The proposed project is located on the northern border of Sandy City, along Durham and 115
East Street. It is mostly zoned Mixed Use (MU), with about an acre on the southern end being R-
1-7.5(HS). It is borded by the East Town Village condominium project to the north and the Axio
Apartments to the west. All of these developments are zoned Mixed Use (MU). To the south, are
residential homes zoned R-1-7.5(HS). To the east, the property is borded by UTA Trax lines.
Further to the east are residential properties with various zoning (R-2-10, R-2-8, PUD(8), R-1-
8, & R-1-7.5(HS)).

This property was zoned mixed use (MU) with the intent of UTA potentially adding a “kiss and
ride” Trax station within the development. Since that time, UTA has decided that it’s too close to
the nearby stations in Historic Sandy and Midvale. The site is a little over a 1/2 mile from the
9000 South Station (with a connection to the Porter Rockwell Trail) and 3/4 mile to the Midvale
TRAX station. This distance is a little further than the average person is willing to walk (1/4 to
1/2 mile statistically) but well within a reasonable distance for bike commuters and also a
reasonable distance for those willing to walk a little further.

NOTICE
Notices were mailed to property owners within a 500-foot radius of the subject parcel to notify
them of the Planning Commission meeting. The applicant also held a neighborhood meeting on
August 7, 2019. There were several questions and concerns raised during the meeting. A full
report from the meeting is attached to this report.

ANALYSIS
Overview:
This development of sixty-three (63) residential units is proposed to be built out as a single
development in regards to the infrastructure. Individual buildings will be built out over time, and
landscaping improvements will be completed as they complete construction in an area. These
are to be built on Lots 1, 2, and 3 of the East Town Village-Sandy Plat. There are three (3) types
of units being proposed: two (2) styles of townhomes, and single-family pad homes. These units
are oriented to one of six (6) proposed pedestrian streets (mews) and serviced with a series of
Princeton Terrace – SPR-07-19-5689                                                      Page - 3 -


alleys for vehicular access. Where units front the public street, these are to be oriented to that
street. The proposal is generally consistent with the approved Master Plan for the property.

Important design issues or considerations on this proposed development in the Mixed Use Zone
that will need to be reviewed by the Planning Commission include: streets, pedestrian ways,
streetscape design, concealment of parking lots and structures, pedestrian scale design, open
space, architectural design and materials, massing, building orientation to the street, pedestrian
connections, appropriate mix in types of residential units.

Access:
Primary access for the development is to come from Durham Street and 115 East. Those roads
have been improved in previous phases of development, however the side treatments of those
streets have not yet been improved (including pedestrian sidewalks, parkstrips, benches, etc).
Those would be installed and further ehnanced with this development. A continuation of the
drive isles and parking lots from the East Town Village Condos would occur through a series of
alleys and driveways, which would provide rear loaded vehicular access to the units.

Parking:
Each unit will have a 2-car attached garage. Thirty-two (32) units will have a full driveway
behind the unit, which will accommodate two (2) guest parking spaces for that unit. The
remaining thrity-one (31) units will share thirty-two (32) guest parking spaces that are
distributed throughout the development along the alleys and drive-isles. An additional three (3)
more parkings spaces are proposed to be created on the adjacent East Town Villages Condos
property, as they tie-in to the existing stubbed drive-isle. The proposed guest parking exceeds
the minimum guest parking requirement of twelve (12) stalls.

Architectural Design & Materials:
The applicant is proposing to construct two (2) townhome types and cottage style single-family
homes on the southern end pad sites. While the applicant has submitted the proposed designs
for the townhomes, we don’t have any information on the proposed pad lot homes. The applicant
has indicated that those units are intended to be cottage style homes that will relate to the
Historic District to the south.

Building Setbacks & Height:
The Mixed Use Zone requires buildings to be built up to the street and that primary building
entrances be oriented to the street or pedestrian mew. Building facades must make up a
minimum of 70% of the street frontage, except for pedestrian plazas, or open space. The proposal
meets this criteria with the proposed urban street design. The building heights are proposed to
be thirty-five feet (35’) to the peak of the roofs from finished grade.

Landscaping & Open Space
The applicant has submitted a full landscape plan for the site. Staff has found that it generally
meets the requirements specific to the Mixed Use Zone and those of Chapter 21-25 entitled
Landscaping Standards. The plans reflect a variety of deciduous and coniferous trees, shrubs,
seed mixes, and perennial flowers. They are proposing formal street tree plantings along the
public streets (e.g. placed thirty feet (30’) on center in an eight-foot (8’) parkstrip).
Approximately 40% of the site is in landscaping.
Princeton Terrace – SPR-07-19-5689                                                     Page - 4 -


This plan shows urban amenities such as street furniture in the open space areas and along
pedestrian mews. A few more should be added along the public street frontage and the plans
should include trash receptacles and bike racks. These amenities are beneficial to the project
design and enhance the pedestrian experience. There are three (3) distinct open spaces in the
project spread thoughout. There is an open space along the northern edge of the site along the
street, another in the middle of the development near the intersection of Princeton Drive, and
another on the south end of the project in the triangular shaped area of the site. This southern
open space contains amenities such as the extension of the Porter Rockwell multipurpose public
trail (10’ wide), a dog run area, and community garden space. The other two areas are not
currently programed spaces or contain any other built amenity. Staff would encourage the
addition of playground equipment and a covered pavilion/picnic area.

CONCERNS
Staff has the following concerns regarding this proposal as submitted by the applicant:

   1. Shared Access. A shared access easement and approval to improve the property of the
      East Town Village HOA will need to be obtained. Some of the East Town Village parking
      stalls are partially built on the subject property as well. This agreement will need to be
      obtained and agreed to prior to final staff approval.
   2. Architectural Design – PC Review. During the Planning Commission’s Conceptual Review
      of this site, the following issues were identified:
      a. Buildings were too flat and not articulated enough.
      b. The proposed architecture and proposed colors don’t fit the surrounding area.
      c. Expressed desire to see a transition in architectural style from the Historic District
          to the more modern style of the Axio Apartments through different architectural
          designs of the units.
      d. Buildings lacked defined entrances and covered front porches. The entries need to
          be further articulated and defined.

       While the designs of the buildings have changed significantly from the conceptual
       submittal, these issues have not yet been fully addressed. The buildings lack articulation
       on all sides. While the architectural style is improved, the colors and materials need
       further revision. There is not a clear architectural transition between the modern to the
       historic style. The units still lack defined entrances in extensive front porches. Covered
       porch areas could be larger and help make the entrances more prominent.

   3. Architectural Design – Staff Review. Staff has the following issues with the proposed
      architecture, as the proposed units do not yet meet the architectural requirements of the
      Mixed Use zone:
      a. The sides of the units are flat with no, or very little, articulation. Cantilevers,
         balconies, or other articulations need to be added to the sides of the units.
      b. The units use too much stucco and not enough brick or masonry materials. Code
         requires predominantly brick or masonry. In addition to additional brick and
         masonry, staff would rather see more masonite siding to further limit the amount of
         stucco.
      c. Some of proposed colors do not relate to the surrounding development, and too
         many colors are proposed to be used overall. The Planning Commission can approve
Princeton Terrace – SPR-07-19-5689                                                      Page - 5 -


          more than four (4) colors overall but those colors need to relate to the surrounding
          developments.
      d. The units that face the street lack expansive windows, balconies, terraces, or other
          design features which are oriented to the street. The covered porch area needs to be
          more prominent.
      e. No architectural design has been presented for the proposed cottage homes. This
          would be need to be addressed at Final Review with staff or the Planning
          Commission.
      f. Change in materials should correlate with change of plane.
   4. Fencing. The applicant is not proposing any change to the fencing along the Trax line.
      Staff is concerned that residents of this development will want a screen or sound wall
      along the rail lines to buffer them from the noise from the trains.
   5. Open Space. Staff would suggest adding additional built amenities like the addition of
      playground equipment, a covered pavilion/picnic area.

STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission find that the preliminary site plan review is
complete for the proposed Princeton Terrace Mixed Use Site Plan, located at approximately
8377 South 115 East, based upon the following conditions:

Conditions:

   1. That the applicant complies with each department’s comments and redlines throughout
      the preliminary and final review process and that all issues be resolved before final site
      plan approval.

   2. That all City provisions, codes and ordinances are adhered to during the review,
      construction and operations process of this building.

   3. All utility boxes (i.e. transformers, switch gear, telephone, cable tv, etc.) shall be shown
      on the site plan and shall be placed underground or moved behind the front setback of
      the buildings and screened from view. Each box shall be shown in its exact location and
      shall be noted with its exact height, width and length. Building utility meters shall be
      mounted to the side or rear elevation or screened with a wing wall if fronting a public
      street.

   4. That the developer be responsible for the placement of a temporary 6-foot-high chain
      link fence around the perimeter of the project during the construction phase of the
      project for security. Said fence shall also be required to include fabric to prohibit blowing
      dust problems if it becomes necessary or if it is required by the Community Development
      Department during Site Plan Review.

   5. Shared access easement and development agreement with the East Town Village HOA
      will need to be obtained and agreed to prior to final staff approval.

   6. Architectural design of the units needs to be further revised to fully address the Planning
      Commission and staff concerns listed in the staff report prior to Final Approval.
Princeton Terrace – SPR-07-19-5689                                                         Page - 6 -


    7. That only the architectural plans for all three (3) building types be required to be
       brought back to the Planning Commission before Final Approval.

    8. (Optional) A six foot (6’) (or 8’) tall opaque fence shall be constructed along the Trax rail
       lines to provide a visual screen and sound attenuation to buffer future residents because
       the units are to be placed as close as ten feet (10’) to the Trax lines.

    9. (Optional) Additional built amenities of playground equipment and a covered
       pavilion/picnic area shall be required to be incorporated into the open space of the
       development.



Planner:




Mike Wilcox
Zoning Administrator

File Name: S:\USERS\PLN\STAFFRPT\2019\SPR-07-19-5689 PRINCETON TERRACE\STAFF REPORT.DOCX
