Sec. 21-11-3. - Animals (Farm and Household Pets). 
(a)  Farm Animals. 
(1)  Designation of Appropriate Zone Districts. Property owners in any R-1-40, R-1-30, R-1-20, or R-1-15 residential district may submit an application for rezoning for designation of the district for the keeping and raising of farm animals. An "A" following a zone designation indicates farm animals are permitted. 
(2)  Procedure for Designation. A request for rezoning must include at least five contiguous properties or have at least 1½ acres. 
(3)  Ratio of Animals to Lot Size for Farm Animals. In order to have farm animals on a residential lot with an "A" designated zone, the following minimum square footage requirements will be required for each animal: 
a.  Each large animal requires at least 10,000 square feet. Each medium animal requires at least 4,000 square feet. Each small animal requires at least 400 square feet. For example, a 20,000 square foot lot could have no more than two large animals, or no more than five medium animals, or no more than 50 small animals, or a combination of one large animal, two medium animals, and five small animals. 
b.  Vietnamese potbellied pigs may be kept at a ratio of two animals for each one-half acre of lot size (no less than 20,000 square feet). The maximum number of Vietnamese potbellied pigs shall be two per residential lot. 
(b)  Household Pets. 
(1)  Maximum Number Allowed. All zones are allowed no more than a total of six common household pets (dogs, cats, rabbits, and ducks). These household pets may be kept on-site for family use only. Roosters are not allowed as a household pet. Exceptions: 
a.  In addition to the six common household pets, there shall be no more than ten chickens, kept on a non-nuisance basis. 
b.  No more than two (three/four) dogs per residence are allowed unless the resident has procured a dog hobby license to allow up to a total of five dogs. 
(c)  Outdoor Animal Domiciles Structure. Partially enclosed and/or roofed structures (e.g., barns, corrals, cages, pens, coops, kennels and runs, etc.) are encouraged to be provided and maintained for all animals kept outdoors. Such structures shall be sited at the rear of the main dwelling and at least 30 feet from neighboring dwellings and comply with all other setback and yard regulations for accessory structures (unless the parcel is over 40,000 square feet and the accessory structure is placed beyond the front or side yard setbacks. See Subsection (a)(1)b of this section). The facilities shall be placed in compliance with all animal regulations, noise and nuisance regulations, and Salt Lake Valley Health Department regulations and procedures, with the following exceptions: 
(1)  All dog kennels and dog runs must be set back at least ten feet from the property line and at least 40 feet from all neighboring dwellings. 
(2)  For properties which have an "A" designation, the Director may allow an outdoor animal domicile structure for farm animals to be constructed prior to construction of a main dwelling under the following conditions: 
a.  The structure complies with all accessory structure setback, height, and size standards. 
b.  The structure is in scale and character with other accessory buildings located within one-half mile of the property and located in the same or larger lot zone district or is an improvement to the immediate area (e.g., R-1-15A, R-1-20A, R-1-30A, R-1-40A). 
c.  That an agreement be recorded against the property that the structure will be relocated or removed as necessary to comply with setback standards upon additional development of the property (e.g., construction of the main dwelling, subdivision, etc.). In addition, a plot plan shall be submitted which indicates the location of the structure in relation to a future residence on the property, and this information shall also be provided within the agreement. 
Note: This section applies only to those animal facilities placed outside the main dwelling unit. This regulation does not apply to any location within the interior of the home, including the garage or other attached interior space. 
(LDC 2008, § 15A-11-03; Ord. No. 12-05, 1-31-2012; Ord. No. 12-22, 6-18-2012; Ord. No. 15-25, 7-21-2015) 
