                                                                                  10000 South Centennial

                                    Sandy City                                    Parkway Suite 231
                                                                                  Sandy, UT 84070

                                   Council Office                                 O| 801-568-7141
                                                                                  Sandy.Utah.Gov




                                          Memorandum

                                             July 21, 2020

To:               All City Council Members

Cc:               Mike Applegarth, Council Office Director; Dustin Fratto, Council Analyst; James
                  Sorensen, Community Development Director; Darien Alcorn, Senior Civil
                  Attorney

From:             Council Member Monica Zoltanski, District 4

Subject:          Proposed Ordinance Requiring Sign Posting of Public Hearings on Land Use
                  Issues




Background

Under current Utah law, property owners within 300’ must receive written notice by mail of a
public meeting on site-specific land use items. Our current administration has voluntarily
expanded that notice to include properties within a 500’ boundary. The Community
Development staff mails the written notice to neighboring property owners three or ten days in
advance of a public meeting, depending on the type of action to be decided. This 500’ distance
notice is the same whether the property in issue is a half-acre or a ten-acre project.

A common frustration voiced by residents at important land use meetings over the years is they
did not receive better advance notice because they live beyond the 500’ notice area. Or if they
received a written notice in the mail, they overlooked it, unaware it was an important meeting
notice. The one-size-fits-all mailer approach is better than the minimal state requirement, yet
not serving our residents’ needs. A posted sign at the property location announcing the public
meeting can solve that problem.

For purposes of this discussion, “public meeting” should include “public hearing”.

Recommendations for a Sandy Site Sign Policy:

      1. Requirement: Require physically posted signs at the property location for all public
         meetings on certain major site-specific land use applications. Recommend signs posted
         for the following applications: Rezoning, subdivisions, commercial site plans, variances,
                                                                              10000 South Centennial

                               Sandy City                                     Parkway Suite 231
                                                                              Sandy, UT 84070

                              Council Office                                  O| 801-568-7141
                                                                              Sandy.Utah.Gov

   and annexations. Do not recommend at this time requiring for conditional use permits,
   or lot line adjustments.

2. Duration: Sign posted not less than 10 calendar days prior to the public meeting. This is
   consistent with other notice requirements under state statute. Another option is to
   expand it to 14 days, or 10 weekdays or even longer if council prefers.

3. Sign Installation: Community Development staff will place the sign at the property
   location in a place and manner visible to passersby. City staff, as opposed to the
   applicant, should do the installation giving the city control over visibility and
   compliance. Staff should also inspect the sign at least once during the posting period to
   ensure it remains visible. Staff should include a photo of the posted sign as verification
   of compliance with the sign posting requirement and include the photo in the
   application packet for the public meeting. Should a sign be destroyed or disappear
   during the posting period, it will not impact the City’s ability to hold the public meeting
   or decide on the land use application.

4. Sign Placement, Materials, Information: The ordinance should require the sign be of
   sufficient size & durability and that it be placed in a manner reasonably calculated to be
   visible to the public from the street view of the property. The ordinance should allow
   staff the discretion to include pertinent information such as Public Meeting/Hearing,
   Method (electronic or in person) date, time with a basic description for the action
   sought (i.e. rezone from R-1-40A to R-1-10), Applicant Name, Application Number,
   Project Name, Property Owner Name, Phone number to the appropriate city office for
   more information. The ordinance should be general enough to allow staff to adapt the
   sign information in the future without amending the ordinance.

5. Cost: At this time, Community Development has adequate funds in its public notice
   budget to create a test run of signage and posting supplies for the remainder of FY20-
   21. After staff has had an appropriate amount of time to develop a sense of the actual
   cost of administering the sign postings, the council should increase applicant fees to
   have a revenue neutral fiscal impact.

6. Process: If the Council approves moving forward, the council should direct staff to
   prepare an ordinance consistent with the recommendations of this discussion. The
   ordinance will require review by the Planning Commission before it is presented to
   council for final adoption.

7. Reference: See attached photos (Exhibit A) of sample site sign from Draper, Utah.
