                              MEMORANDUM
                                       October 15, 2020


 To:          Planning Commission
 From:        Community Development Department
 Subject:     Harris Lot Split Subdivision (Preliminary Review)              SUB-09-20-5908
              625 E. 8800 S.                                                Zone: R-1-7.5(HS)
              [Community #4 – Historic Sandy]                                        .35 Acres



HEARING NOTICE: This item has been noticed to property owners within 500 feet of the subject
                area.



                                PROPERTY CASE HISTORY
  Case Number                               Case Summary


DESCRIPTION OF REQUEST
The applicant, Boman Construction, Inc., is requesting preliminary review for a two-lot
subdivision. The applicant is also requesting the application of the Historic Sandy Development
(HSD) Overlay Zone to the subject property.

BACKGROUND & SITE CONDITIONS
The subject property is approximately .35 acres and is located in the R-1-7.5(HS) Zone in
Tier 1 of Historic Sandy, and fronts onto 8800 South. The bordering properties to the west,
south, and east are all zoned R-1-7.5(HS). The north side is bordered by the Kenwood Villa
subdivision, which is an apartment complex zoned RM(12).

NOTICE
Notices were mailed to property owners within a 500-foot radius of the subject parcel as per
Sandy City Land Development Code requirements, to notify them of the Planning Commission
meeting. A neighborhood meeting was held on September 23, 2020, which 7 people attended.
Several concerns were brought up during the meeting. Among them were a general desire for
separate driveways rather than the proposed shared driveway, as well as the potential strain on
Cliff Harris Lot Split Subdivision – SUB-09-20-5908                                          Page 2


the nearby power and sewer utilities. A full summary of the neighborhood meeting is attached to
this staff report.

SUBDIVISION ANALYSIS
The R-1-7.5(HS) Zone allows for single-family housing on lots with a minimum size of 7,500
square feet. However, the applicant is requesting that the HSD Overlay Zone be applied to this
subdivision. The Overlay Zone allows lot sizes to be a minimum of 5,000 square feet. However,
both lots will be close to 7,500 square feet in size. In addition to the new home, a two-car garage
will be constructed behind both the existing home (Lot 1) and behind the new home (Lot 2) to
comply with City code.

There is also a shared driveway being proposed to service the two lots. This is largely because
there exists an approximately 21-foot sewer easement between the two lots. For this reason, a
shared driveway can be constructed within the easement while a permanent structure cannot. It
helps make more efficient use of the land while working around the sewer easement.

Historic Sandy Development Overlay Zone
The purpose of the HSD Overlay Zone is to encourage development and investment in the
Historic Sandy Area by reducing the required minimum size and frontage requirements for a lot,
as well as providing a reduction in required setbacks. In exchange for this flexibility, the Overlay
details architectural and landscape requirements meant to promote development that
compliments and enhances the historic nature of the district. Some of the more significant design
requirements for lots within the HSD Overlay Zone are as follows:

   •   Subservient garages
   •   Dwelling and garage gables facing streets and alleys
   •   Covered and open front porches comprising at least 50% of the front elevation (not
       including the garage), in no case being less than 15 feet in length
   •   Elevations and materials used on the home must be architecturally compatible with one
       of the different housing styles that may be found within the surrounding area.
   •   Entry sidewalks that connect directly to street sidewalks
   •   Windows and doors are required to occupy at least 25% of the front elevation
   •   Dwelling footprints shall not occupy more than 50% of the lot
   •   Street trees (minimum two-inch caliper planted 4 feet back from sidewalk) are required
   •   A minimum of one evergreen tree (six foot minimum) is required for each home
   •   A variety of shrubs and flower beds shall be required for each home

These design requirements, which are not part of the underlying R-1-7.5(HS) Zone, are used
during the building permit review process to ensure that homes are more compatible with historic
structures in the area. A notice to purchasers shall be added to the subdivision plat that will
inform potential buyers of these lots that they were developed under this overlay. The notice is
meant to inform purchasing parties of the additional design requirements that will be used during
the review of any future building permit(s).

Also, by ordinance, the design and elevations of the home and garages are to first be presented to
the Historic Preservation Committee, which then forwards its recommendation to the Planning
Commission. The applicant has previously presented one plan for an attached garage behind the
Cliff Harris Lot Split Subdivision – SUB-09-20-5908                                         Page 3


existing home to the Historic Committee but is scheduled to present this modified design and the
design of the new home to the Committee on October 14. Their recommendation will be
presented to the Planning Commission during the October 15 meeting. The design currently
submitted for the new home on Lot 2 shows an attached three-car garage. Because three-car
garages are not allowed in Tier 1 of Historic Sandy this design will likely change by the time it is
presented to the Historic Committee and Planning Commission.

STAFF CONCERNS
The shared driveway presents a possible concern. The majority of the driveway is located on Lot
2. Parking should be restricted to the required parking area on each lot. The off-street parking
area for each lot is required to be at least 20 feet long and 18 feet wide to meet the off-street
parking requirements of the City code. A shared access easement will be necessary for the
driveway that runs back to the garages. The applicant is planning to include the easement on the
plat.

There are overhead power lines that run across the rear section of the lots. No buildings will be
allowed within the powerline easement. This could potentially affect the building footprints and
locations of the garages. When building permits are applied for, the site plans will need to
demonstrate that the structures do not encroach into this easement.

The design of the new home, as submitted, does not meet the requirement for a front porch of no
less than 15 feet in length along the front of the home. The design will need to be modified to meet
this requirement, while still incorporating windows and doors that occupy at least 25% of the front
elevation. Additionally, the new home on Lot 2 is shown as having a three-car attached garage.
Three-car garages are not allowed in Tier 1 of Historic Sandy, so this will need to be modified to
a two-car attached or detached garage.

The existing home will not meet the required side setbacks at it stands today. The laundry room at
the northwest corner of the home will need to be removed in order to comply with the side setback
requirements. The applicant intends to demolish the laundry room in order to comply with the
setback requirements.

STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission determine Preliminary Subdivision review is
complete for the Cliff Harris Lot Split Subdivision, located at 625 E. 8800 S., based upon the
following findings and subject to the following conditions:

Findings:

   1. That the proposed subdivision is an infill development.

   2. That the proposed lot configuration is an efficient use of the land.

   3. That the proposed lot sizes and frontages conform to the requirements of the HSD
      Overlay Zone.

   4. That the various City Departments and Divisions have preliminarily approved the
      proposed subdivision plat.
   Cliff Harris Lot Split Subdivision – SUB-09-20-5908                                      Page 4



   Conditions:

      1. That the applicant complies with each department’s comments and redlines throughout
         the final review process and that all issues be resolved before the subdivision can be
         recorded.

      2. That all City provisions, codes and ordinances, including the standards of the HSD
         Overlay Zone, are adhered to during the review, construction and operations process of
         this project. This includes all architectural requirements of the HSD Overlay Zone.

      3. That the applicant establishes a shared access and maintenance agreement for the
         private driveway between the owners of lots 1 and 2.

      4. That the applicant dedicate property along 8800 S. as required by the Public Works
         Department during final review to Sandy City, and that all improvements be installed
         according to the requirements of Sandy City Public Works.

      5. That landscaping be installed in compliance with the requirements of the HSD Overlay
         Zone, including two-inch caliper street trees and one evergreen tree (six foot minimum)
         be installed on each lot at least four feet behind the sidewalk. A variety of shrubs and
         flower beds are also to be required in front of each home.




Planner: ___________________________           Reviewed by:___________________________
Craig Evans, Planner                           Brian McCuistion, Planning Director
