                                MEMORANDUM
                                           May 14, 2020


 To:        City Council via Planning Commission
 From:      Community Development Department
 Subject:   Limits on Dogs as Household Pets                                   CODE-04-20-5846
            Amend Title 21, Chapter 11, Special Use Standards, Section
            3 - Animals (Farm and Household Pets), of the Sandy
            Municipal Code


HEARING NOTICE: This item has been noticed on public websites, and in the newspaper at least
                10 days prior to the Public Hearing.



REQUEST
On behalf of the City, the Community Development Department is proposing to amend Title 21,
Chapter 11, Special Use Standards, Section 3 - Animals (Farm and Household Pets), of the Sandy
Municipal Code. The purpose of the Code Amendment is to align the Land Development Code
regarding household pets with those of the recently adopted amendments to Title 12. The full text of
the proposed change is shown in Exhibit “A”.


BACKGROUND
The City Council passed ordinance 20-01 on April 21, 2020, which made amendments to Title 12 –
Animal Services. This ordinance primarily increased the maximum number of dogs allowed in a
residence from two (2) to three (3). This change also requires the Land Development Code to be
updated to align it with this change.


NON-CONFORMING USES
This Code Amendment would not create any non-conforming use situations.


LAND DEVELOPMENT CODE PURPOSE COMPLIANCE
The Sandy City Land Development Code in 21-1-3 lists the criteria explaining the intent and
purpose of the Ordinance. The purpose is:
Limits on Dogs as Household Pets – CODE-04-20-5846                                                Page - 2 -




       21-1-3 Purpose
       This Code is adopted to implement Sandy City’s General Plan and to promote: public
       health, safety, convenience, aesthetics, welfare; efficient use of land; sustainable land use
       and building practices; transportation options and accessibility; crime prevention; timely
       citizen involvement in land use decision making; and efficiency in development review
       and land use administration. Specifically, this Code is established to promote the
       following purposes:

       1. General
          a. To facilitate the orderly growth and development of Sandy City.
          b. To facilitate adequate provision for transportation, water, sewage, schools, parks, and
             other public requirements.
          c. To stabilize property values.
          d. To enhance the economic well-being of Sandy City and its inhabitants.

       2. Implementation of General Plan
          To coordinate and ensure the implementation of the City’s General Plan through effective
          execution of development review requirements, adequate facility and services review and
          other goals, policies, or programs contained in the General Plan.

       3. Comprehensive, Consistent and Equitable Regulations
          To establish a system of fair, comprehensive, consistent and equitable regulations, standards
          and procedures for review and approval of all proposed land development within the City.

       4. Efficiently and Effectively Managed Procedures
          a. To promote fair procedures that are efficient and effective in terms of time and expense.
          b. To be effective and responsive in terms of the allocation of authority and delegation of
              powers and duties among ministerial, appointed, and elected officials.
          c. To foster a positive customer service attitude and to respect the rights of all applicants
              and affected citizens.

The proposed Code Amendment will create consistency and equitable standards under which certain
household pets may be kept in a residence. These regulations would help promote the health, safety
and welfare of our residents.


GENERAL PLAN COMPLIANCE
The General Plan encourages appropriate development standards for all uses and zoning categories
within Sandy City. This code amendment would further that goal and objective.


STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission forward a positive recommendation to amend Title
21, Chapter 11, Special Use Standards, Section 3 - Animals (Farm and Household Pets), of the Sandy
Municipal Code, as shown in (Exhibit “A”) based on the following findings:

1.     Compliance with the Purpose of the Land Development Code by creating consistency and
       equitable standards in Sandy City.
Limits on Dogs as Household Pets – CODE-04-20-5846                                       Page - 3 -



2.      Compliance with the Goals and Policies of the General Plan by establishing appropriate
        development standards for all uses and zoning categories within Sandy City.


Planner:                                   Reviewed by:




Mike Wilcox
Zoning Administrator

File Name: S:\USERS\PLN\STAFFRPT\2020\CODE-04-20-5846_LIMITS ON DOGS\STAFF REPORT.DOCX
