Modification of CUP-7-18-5462                    Page 9

Exhibit #3
Staff Report and minutes from the October 18, 2018 Planning Commission meeting

---

SANDY CITY COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT

[Sandy logo — COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT]

JAMES SORENSEN
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
DIRECTOR

KURT BRADBURN
MAYOR

MATTHEW HUISH
CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER

MEMORANDUM

October 18, 2018

To:        Planning Commission

From:      Community Development Department
Subject:   7-Eleven Convenience Store Conditional Use          CUP-07-18-5462
                                                                CvC Zone
           711 West 9000 South Street                          0.994 Acres
           [Civic Center, Community #2]

Public Notice: In addition to the posting of the meeting agenda, this project was noticed for this
meeting to property owners within 500 feet of the subject property, by U.S. Mail delivery. A
Neighborhood meeting was held on this project on September 12, 2018. The neighborhood meeting
was well attended.

DESCRIPTION OF REQUEST
The applicant is requesting that the Planning Commission review and approve the proposed
conditional use application for a new 7-Eleven branded Convenience Store with gasoline sales
and also requesting 24/7 extended operating hours which is also a conditional use when
located within 250 feet of a residential use or zoning.  The Planning Commission is the
approval body for Conditional Uses.

BACKGROUND

The applicant, Mr. Logan Johnson, representing Wright Development Group, is requesting that
the Planning Commission allow two conditional uses associated with the proposed new 3,050
square foot 7-Eleven branded retail convenience store, proposed on the currently vacant property
located on the southwest corner of 700 West Street (AKA Riverside Drive) and 9000 South
Street.  (See applicant letter requesting the Conditional Uses, attached.)

CONDITIONAL USE ANALYSIS

Conditional Use consideration for gasoline sales associated with a retail convenience
store, and for extended operating hours to 24 hours/7 day a week.  Under the Sandy City
Development Code, the Planning Commission, through the Conditional Use process, can:
approve Conditional Uses if no mitigation of reasonably anticipated detrimental impacts is
necessary; approve Conditional Uses, subject to reasonable conditions designed to
mitigate or eliminate reasonably anticipated detrimental impacts; or deny Conditional

10000 Centennial Parkway | Sandy, Utah 84070 | p: 801.568.7250 | f: 801.568.7278 | sandy.utah.gov

---

7-Eleven Convenience Store Conditional Use          CUP-07-18-5462     Page 2

Uses, if it is determined that reasonably anticipated detrimental impacts cannot be
adequately mitigated.  The burden of mitigating these impacts or effects is the
responsibility of the applicant and not of the municipality or adjacent property owners
(Section 15A-33-04).

Compliance with Section 15A-33-04 Conditional Use Permit

In order to achieve compliance with the standards set forth herein, the City may impose
conditions that address these standards:

1.    Size, configuration and location of the site and the proposed site plan layout.

The layout is properly designed and located.  The site is adequately sized for the proposed new
building.  The proposed gasoline dispensing area includes a canopy roof and is located toward
9000 South Street, with the retail building placed between that street and the residential
backyards.

2.    Proposed site ingress and egress to existing and proposed roads and streets.

The ingress and egress to and from the site will be adequate for use by this facility, provided
that UDOT allows the shared driveway on 9000 South Street.

3.    The adequacy, provision, relocation or protection of public facilities and amenities,
including roads and street, culinary water, secondary water, sanitary sewer, storm drainage,
public safety and fire protections, and other utilities.

All of these public facilities presently exist at the site, are functioning, and will not be
detrimentally impacted by the proposed Conditional Uses of the property.

4.    Design, location and amount of off-street parking, loading areas and solid waste
disposal and collection areas.

Adequate vehicle parking will be provided as per the Sandy City Development Code.  Parking
for the retail store will meet the 5 parking stalls per 1,000 square feet of gross building square
footage standard.  The proposed trash dumpster has been relocated from the south side of the
building to the west side and is now farther away from the residences than before.

5.    Site circulation patterns for vehicular, pedestrian and other traffic.

Site circulation will be sufficient for the use as designed on the site plan, provided that UDOT
allows the shared driveway on 9000 South Street.

6.    Mass, size, number, location, design, exterior features, materials, and colors of
buildings, structures and other facilities.

10000 Centennial Parkway | Sandy, Utah 84070 | p: 801.568.7250 | f: 801.568.7278 | sandy.utah.gov

---

7-Eleven Convenience Store Conditional Use          CUP-07-18-5462     Page 3

The building design, materials, and colors meet the zoning requirements and the Sandy City
Architectural Design regulations.  The proposed building has been modified to increase the
parapet height and to meet the unique Sandy City architectural regulations and to better
screen the residential properties from light and noise activities generated by the gasoline
dispensing area, located to the north of the building.  The building entry is on the north side of
the building, which is where the customer coming and going will take place.

7.    The location and design of all site features, including proposed signage, lighting, and
refuse collection.

This standard will be met. Signage is not included in this process and must be subsequently
applied for and reviewed by City staff.  Site lighting is required to be directed downward and
to not spill directly onto adjoining residential properties.  A site photometric plan has been
developed for this site.  Light spill was a general concern for the residents who attended the
neighborhood meeting.   Refuse collection will need to be by a commercial contractor.
Dumpster trash collection activities must be restricted to 7:00 A.M. or later and not after 10:00
P.M. due to residential proximity.

8.    The provision of useable open space, public features, and recreational amenities.

This standard is not applicable.

9.    Fencing, screening and landscape treatments, and other features designed to increase
the attractiveness and safety of the site and protect adjoining owners from noise, visual and
other impacts.

The site landscaping will be installed as part of this site plan approval as shown on the
attached plans.  An 8-foot high minimum solid masonry wall is required along the south
property boundary to help screen the commercial activity from the residential uses.  Since the
neighborhood meeting, the applicant has modified his plans to extend the 8 foot masonry wall
westward for the full extent of their ownership, and also to extend the 10 foot wide landscape
buffer to the west end of their ownership.  Landscaping is to be densified with the use of more
trees and a majority of the trees being conifer, so as to not lose their leaves in the winter, and
provide better screening.   These items were of concern to the neighbors attending the
neighborhood meeting.

10.   Measures directed at minimizing or eliminating possible nuisance factors including,
but not limited to noise, vibrations, smoke, dust, dirt, debris, plant materials, odors, gases,
noxious matter, heat, glare, electromagnetic disturbances, and radiation.

This facility will be subject to the noise limits imposed by the County Health Department.  The
building location and the gasoline dispensing area canopy will help buffer the noise and light.
There will not be any unusual vibration, smoke, dust, and debris or plant materials nuisance
factors after development of the building and site.  Odors from gasoline and car exhaust
will be present and will negatively impact the residential properties during operating
hours.  Noise from vehicles coming and going, opening and closing doors, and people

10000 Centennial Parkway | Sandy, Utah 84070 | p: 801.568.7250 | f: 801.568.7278 | sandy.utah.gov

---

7-Eleven Convenience Store Conditional Use          CUP-07-18-5462     Page 4

talking will be present during all operating hours and will be a detrimental impact to
the residential properties during operating hours.  Some measure of mitigation of these
negative impacts can be achieved by the building and site-planning efforts put forth.
However, these negative impacts cannot be eliminated, except by limiting the business
hours during the deep nighttime period, Midnight to 6:00 A.M.

11.   Measures designed to protect the natural features of the site, including wetlands and
drainage ways, ground water protection, soils, wildlife and plant life.

This standard is not generally applicable.  The gasoline storage tanks will be underground and
installed with the required double wall construction with spill monitoring, and inspected by
the State of Utah.

12.   The regulation of operating hours for activities affecting normal schedules and
functions;

The applicants are requesting that the normal business hours of operation, 6:00 A.M. to 10:00
P.M., seven days a week, be extended to 24 hours a day, seven days a week.  Staff has identified
negative impacts that cannot be fully mitigated during business operating hours
(see#10 above).  Therefore, staff recommends that the requested extended business
hours be limited to 6:00 A.M. to Midnight, in order to reduce the impact of the new
development on the existing residential community abutting the site to the south.

13.   Identifying a time for regular review and monitoring, as determined necessary, to
ensure the use continues to operate in compliance with all conditions and requirements of
approval.

The conditional use will be reviewable upon legitimate complaint, and any new impacts
arising can then be addressed through the imposition of additional mitigating measures, by
the Planning Commission.

14.   Measures to ensure compliance with all conditions and requirements of approval
including but not limited to bonds, letters of credit, improvement agreements, agreements
to conditions, road maintenance funds, and restrictive covenants.

Measures to ensure compliance will be enforced by the Sandy City staff upon citizen complaint
or staff observance and will be adequate to mitigate potential violations of approval
conditions.

15.   Such other conditions determined reasonable and necessary by the City to allow the
operation of the proposed conditional use, at the proposed location in compliance with the
requirements of this Code.

Staff suggest the conditions listed at the bottom of this report, 1 to 5.

10000 Centennial Parkway | Sandy, Utah 84070 | p: 801.568.7250 | f: 801.568.7278 | sandy.utah.gov

---

7-Eleven Convenience Store Conditional Use          CUP-07-18-5462     Page 5

STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission grant the Conditional Use requests to allow
the gasoline sales use and to extended business hours to 6:00 A.M. to Midnight, based on the
staff report, the staff findings 1 to 15 in the above analysis of the Conditional Use Standards
and the three additional findings listed below and subject to the following five
conditions:

FINDINGS:

A.  That the various City Departments and Divisions, including the City Engineer and the
    Transportation Engineer, have preliminarily approved the proposed related site plan.

B.  That the proposed site-planning, building design, landscaping and buffer wall will
    provide considerable mitigation of reasonably anticipated detrimental impacts of the
    development upon the abutting residential properties, but 24/7 operations are not
    appropriated at this site due to residential proximity.

C.  That the proposed gasoline sales use and the extended business hours request has been
    reviewed by staff considering the 15 standards contained in the Sandy City
    Development Code, 15A-33-04, Conditional Use Process, and appropriate and adequate
    mitigation measures will be implemented or will be imposed as deemed necessary to
    minimize impacts to the abutting residential community, subject to the following
    conditions.

CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL:

1.  That the applicant proceed through final site plan approval with staff as required by the
    Sandy City Development Code.

2.  That the Conditional Use Permit for the gasoline sales and extended business hours, be
    extended only to 6:00 A.M. to Midnight and be reviewed upon future legitimate citizen
    complaint or staff observation of non-compliance with conditions.

3.  That the applicant be responsible to meet all provisions of the Sandy City Development
    Code and all conditions of approval that are included in this report and as may be
    imposed by the Planning Commission to mitigate the reasonably anticipated detrimental
    effects of the proposed use.

4.  That UDOT must allow the right-in-right-out shared driveway on 9000 South Street.

5.  That fuel deliveries and the dumping of the trash by commercial trash removal service be
    limited to 7:00 A.M. to 10:00 P.M.

---

7-Eleven Convenience Store Conditional Use          CUP-07-18-5462     Page 6

Planner:                                    Reviewed by:  [initials]

[signature: Douglas L. Wheelwright]

Douglas L. Wheelwright
Development Services Manager

10000 Centennial Parkway | Sandy, Utah 84070 | p: 801.568.7250 | f: 801.568.7278 | sandy.utah.gov

---

[Wright Development Group logo — "W / WRIGHT DEVELOPMENT GROUP"]

October 16, 2018

VIA ELECTRONIC MAIL

Sandy City Planning Commission

Re: CUP-07-18-5462  Application Response

Dear Sandy City Planning Commission:

Wright Development Group, Inc. ("Applicant") has worked productively with Sandy City staff members and
neighboring residents for the past several months with respect to its application (CUP-07-18-5462) for a
conditional use permit to operate a 24-hour convenience store with retail gasoline sales on the Property
located at 711 West 9000 South, Sandy Utah (the "Property"). We look forward to discussing this important
matter with you in your upcoming meeting on October 18, 2018. This letter is in response to the
Memorandum, dated October 16, 2018 prepared by Douglas L. Wheelwright, Sandy City Development
Services Manager (the "Staff Memorandum"). We appreciate Mr. Wheelwright's diligent efforts in working
with us, the community and in preparing the Staff Memorandum.  The purpose of this Letter is to respond
to item #10 of the Staff Memorandum (closing the proposed store between the hours of 12:00 am and 6:00
am).  Despite numerous prior conversations with Mr. Wheelwright, the first time the Applicant was made
aware of this proposed recommendation was in the Staff Memorandum, and we feel it is important to address
our response prior to the Planning Commission meeting.

I. LAW GOVERNING CONDITIONAL USES

The following section references Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman Advisory Opinions No. 139 and
192 (to read the text of these opinions, please click on the links found in the associated email).

As mentioned in the Staff Memorandum, when a municipality receives a conditional use permit application,
the city may review the local code's standards applicable to conditional uses to determine whether, in light of
the standards, the proposed use will produce any "detrimental impacts" on the municipality generally, or on
the surrounding uses and property owners specifically. Any determinations must be supported by substantial
evidence in the record. If the decision makers are unable to identify any reasonably anticipated detrimental
effects, additional conditions are unnecessary and cannot be imposed.

As a threshold matter, the Staff Memorandum suggests it is the applicant's burden to mitigate detrimental
impacts.  While that is accurate, before an applicant's burden arises to mitigate impacts, it is the City's burden
to demonstrate, by supportable substantial evidence on the record, the specific detrimental impacts created
by the use.  Then, if detrimental impacts can be demonstrated by substantial evidence on the record, the use
can only be denied if the applicant's or City's proposed reasonable conditions cannot substantially mitigate
the detrimental impacts.

II. ANALSYIS OF ITEM STAFF MEMORANDUM ITEM #10

As the Staff Memorandum correctly points out, the application includes a request for two separate conditional
uses: (a) retail gasoline sales; and (b) 24-hour operation within 250 feet of a residential zone.

1178 Legacy Crossing Blvd, Suite 100 • Centerville, Utah 84014 • 801.773.7339  Fax 801.773.7355

---

CUP-07-18-5462
October 16, 2018
Page 2 of 4

Convenience store is currently a permitted use and as such, the threshold questions before the Planning
Commission are limited to: (1) does the record have supportable evidence that retail gasoline sales introduce
a specific detrimental impact to the City or neighboring properties that does not currently exist or that would
exist as a result of a permitted use; (2) does the record have supportable evidence that 24-hour operation
(regardless of type) introduces a specific detrimental impact to the City or neighboring properties that does
not currently exist or that would exist as a result of a permitted use; and (3) if the answer to numbers 1 and/or
2 is yes, are their reasonable measures that can be taken by the applicant to substantially mitigate the identified
detrimental impacts.

As set forth below, the applicant believes there are no detectable detrimental impacts that would
exist as a result of granting either or both conditional use requests, and, in the alternative, there are
reasonable measures that would substantially mitigate any identified detrimental impacts.

A.  Identification of Detrimental Impacts

The Staff Memorandum provides a few possible general detrimental impacts – noise and gaseous
odors – but does not include supportable evidence that any of these possible impacts would result on nearby
properties from either: (1) retail gasoline sales; or (2) 24-hour operations. The Staff Memorandum also does
not consider the existing site conditions and other currently permitted uses at the site.  It is well established
that any evaluation of impacts must consider the overall zoning, previous approvals granted by the City,
considerations for specific setting and circumstances, the location of the proposed use and the unique aspects
of the location.  Generalized statements about the use do not suffice (See Office of the Property Rights
Ombudsman Advisory Opinions No. 139 and 192 for more detailed analysis).

There are several important site-specific currently existing factors that are relevant to impacts analysis
in this application.  The neighboring residential properties are located within: (1) 100 feet of the Jordan River
Parkway Trail; (2) 250 feet of State Highway 209; (3) 800 feet of a major power hub with main line overhead
power lines running through the residential zone; (4) 1/3 of a mile of mass transit train line; (5) 1/3 of a mile
of two 24-hour convenience stores with retail gasoline sales; and (6) ½ of a mile of Interstate I-15.  The noises
and/or odors generated by these already existing proximate uses generate significant noise 24-hours, 7 days a
week.

Moreover, convenience stores with gasoline sales are invariably known as "traffic interceptors" rather
than "destinations"; especially in this location.  As such, the project will not introduce any additional noise to
the site; it will simply change that noise from high speed passing cars to a small amount of cars opening/closing
doors.  While there will likely be a slight increase in proximity of the noise to neighboring residential
properties, the more proximate noise is relatively benign and undetectable (and can be substantially mitigated
as discussed below).  When taken as a whole (combining existing noises and conditions with newly introduced
noises), we believe, with the mitigation measures suggested below, the overall noise level impact on
surrounding properties would be reduced.

Second, any impacts of conditional uses must be measured against permitted uses within the zone
(not the existing status of the property).  With respect to odors, there is no evidence gasoline odors spread
beyond the immediate place of fueling a vehicle.  In fact EPA standards regulate gas omissions and provide
assurances that such gases are not emitted beyond acceptable limits into the surrounding areas.  Compared
to, full service restaurants, a permitted use, the odors created by retail gasoline sales would be undetectable.

---

CUP-07-18-5462
October 16, 2018
Page 3 of 4

With respect to noise generated during the hours of 12:00 am to 6:00 as a result of the conditional 24-hour
use, agricultural uses (farming equipment), restaurant uses, commercial retail uses, Public Plaza and Mixed
Use Buildings all have impacts on neighboring properties during these hours.  Often deliveries and cleaning
crews occur during these hours and public tend to use public places during all hours. Residential component
of Mixed Use and Public Plaza uses persist during all hours and would involve the same, and likely more
noticeable, noises during the same hours.

In sum, there is no substantial evidence that granting a conditional use for retail sale of gasoline or
24-hour operations will create a detrimental impact on neighboring properties.  Perceived dissimilarity to
adjacent uses is not a detrimental effect in light of the applicable standard.  On the contrary, since existing
conditions at the site already have the same or more detrimental impacts, and since permitted uses in the
zone would contribute the same impacts, granting the conditional use permit actually provides the City the
opportunity to reduce existing, and other permitted, impacts by conditioning the grant of conditional use on
reasonable mitigation measures (discussed next).

B.  Reasonable Mitigation Measures

Even though the applicant believes there are no detectable detrimental impacts on neighboring
properties resulting from the conditional use, the applicant does agree that certain measures will mitigate
existing conditions and any added impacts.

The Staff Memorandum acknowledges some measure of mitigation of these impacts can be achieved
by the building and site-planning efforts put forth.  In addition, the Staff Memorandum acknowledges existing
laws such as noise ordinances and environmental protection laws already mitigate any potential negative
impacts of noise and odor.  The Staff Memorandum suggests all detrimental impacts are mitigated by the
proposed site plan except that noise is not "eliminated" between 12:00 am and 6:00 am.  The idea that impacts
must be "eliminated" is not the appropriate standard, rather substantial mitigation is the measure. As
described above, the added noise during the "deep nighttime" is nominal and undetectable and the site
planning (i.e. location of building, location of canopy, fencing/wall and landscaping) substantially mitigates
any detection and further substantially mitigates already existing noise conditions on the specific site.  To
address the perceived impacts (noise and odors) mentioned in the Staff Memorandum, the applicant suggests
there are multiple mitigation measures that would substantially mitigate these suggested impacts as
demonstrated on the site plan.  These include:

o  Site design of the project including the placement of the building to face north with the front doors
   located on the north side of the building
o  The placement of the building between the gas canopy and the residences.
o  Installation of an 8-10' precast textured concrete wall along the south property line of the project
   (between the project and the residences)
o  The extension of that same concrete wall along the full length of the property to the west; even beyond
   the boundaries of this specific site and project
o  Significant landscaping will be installed along the back wall including the installation of at least seven
   (7) Bakers Dwarf spruce trees directly behind the 7-11 building.  These will provide a significant
   buffering effect from any light or noise before reaching the concrete wall
o  Site lighting has been designed to ensure that (i) the highest concentration of lighting is on the north
   side of the building, (ii) the lighting to the south of the store has been minimized to include only that

---

CUP-07-18-5462
October 16, 2018
Page 4 of 4

   lighting needed for safety and security and that (iii) none of the light produced by the project leaves
   the property as shown on the project photometric plan.
o  Per the staff's request, the location of the trash enclosure was shifted from the south to the west of
   the building.
o  Deliveries will not be made to the property after 8:00 pm

Moreover, the City has several 24-hour operations within 250 feet of residential zones throughout its
jurisdiction.  In those instances the City invariably determined that certain mitigation measures were sufficient
to reduce the impacts to neighboring properties.  The same equal consideration should be given here.

In summary, conditional use applications must be granted unless, considering the specific site
conditions, there are verifiable, substantiated detrimental impacts on neighboring properties and those
impacts cannot be mitigated by reasonable measures imposed by the City.  As set forth in this Letter, the
applicant believes the conditional uses requested – 24-hour operations and retail gasoline sales – do not
introduce any detectable increase in any detrimental impact on neighboring properties that do not already
exist or could exist with permitted uses. Moreover, even if any detectable detrimental impact were introduced,
the applicant believes that it has introduced significant measures that substantially mitigate any impacts to the
neighboring properties.

Again, we appreciate the effort of Sandy City Staff and for the work they have done on this application.
We look forward to discussing this important matter with you.

Sincerely,

Justin Atwater
Justin@wrightdevelopmentgroup.net
801-773-7339

---

Doug Wheelwright

From:     Raju Pusapati <rp1070@gmail.com>
Sent:     Wednesday, September 12, 2018 10:12 PM
To:       Doug Wheelwright
Subject:  Concern related to proposed 7-Eleven convince store at 9th south 7th West

Hi Doug,

Greetings!

Thank you for organizing the meeting today (Wednesday). I could not make it even though I wanted to due to
some conflicting appointment. I did get the  meeting minutes fro my neighbor.

I live in the 746 plot and I learned that the bigger fence will stop at 740. This is a concern because after the store
comes up there will be people roaming or camping around and they can easily jump over our backyard wall.
THis is a big security risk. I would like to have the city extend the higher fence behind my home too. I am also
concerned about the bright lighting behind my backyard.

Please advise.

Thanks,
Raju.

1

---

[Sandy logo]

SANDY CITY COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT

JAMES SORENSEN
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
DIRECTOR

KURT BRADBURN
MAYOR

MATTHEW HUISH
CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER

Neighborhood Meeting Summary – Community #2

Date: 9.12.18                                Location: City Hall – Multipurpose Room

Community #/Name: #2, Civic Center          Community Coordinator: Pete Keers

Project Name: 7- Eleven                      Number of Attendees: 16

Applicants: Wright Development Centerville, UT   Number of Invitees: 52

Length of Meeting: 90 minutes                Notice Radius: 500 ft.

Project Description: Proposed project is a new 7-Eleven convenience store with gasoline sales, that will
be open 24/7, on approximately 1 acre of a 1.76-acre property parcel, located on the southwest corner
of 700 W (Riverside Drive) and 9000 South.

Community Concerns:

1.  Access from 9000 S - UDOT says they will not allow access from 9000 S but applicant thinks they
    will. There is still a discussion to be had. if UDOT says no access from 9000 S then this project
    won't happen.
2.  Traffic
    a.  People doing U-Turns
    b.  9000 S and 700 W light system would need to be fixed
    c.  Not just the immediate intersection but a half mile away in both directions – speeds
        need to be lower
    d.  Flow issues
    e.  Freeway interchange traffic lights will bottleneck this intersection
    f.  Left-hand turn going west bound on 9000 S – a lot of wrecks in this intersection this will
        cause much more
    g.  Residents would want a dedicated left-hand turn signal
    h.  9400 S and 500 W there is only a stop sign and a lot of accidents happen here. This will
        add traffic to it. We need a light here. Need to let Britney Ward know.
3.  Too many convenience stores around – why do we need another one?
    a.  What other developers has been interested in this space, is there an alternative
        company that could come in?
4.  Business hours – 24/7
    a.  Why does it have to be 24/7 if primary interest of applicant is morning commute?

10000 Centennial Parkway | Sandy, Utah 84070 | p: 801.568.7250 | f: 801.568.7278 | sandy.utah.gov

---

[Sandy logo]

SANDY CITY COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT

JAMES SORENSEN
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
DIRECTOR

KURT BRADBURN
MAYOR

MATTHEW HUISH
CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER

    b.  Residents would rather have a restaurant or something that isn't open 24/7. They are
        very worried about 24/7
    c.  Can they not be 24/7? Can it be open from 7 AM – 11 PM? Applicants say no, not likely
5.  Smells – dumpster location
    a.  Dumpster will be covered by metal doors, but residents are worried about the smell
6.  Noise Issues
    a.  Can a noise barrier wall be put in? – Ordinance is 8 ft wall height masonry wall at a
        minimum, but they could add height to that, residents would like it to be higher it would
        be at the same site as the current wall. Is the wall going to be on just this portion of the
        site or the entire property?
    b.  Residents would like tall trees included to keep lighting and noise out – evergreens or
        some form of tree that does not lose its leaves
7.  Light pollution
    a.  They will be using directional lighting for gas pumps which will lessen the pump lighting,
        but they are also worried about the marquee signs and fuel signs
        i.  In Sandy you can't have the big signs the sign should be on 9000 S and the
            residents won't even see it from their homes
    b.  There will be two lights on the rear of the building but it shouldn't reach homes
        i.  Residents still want trees to try to block the light
        ii. Applicant plans to plant 3 trees but residents want more
8.  Safety
    a.  They aren't worried about robbery, they are worried about the people it will draw to the
        site to loiter in the parking lot
        i.  7-Eleven night clerks have to go through training to deal with loitering
        ii. They will make sure they get the good night clerk at this location
    b.  Transient individuals camping near Jordan River Parkway coming to the convenience
        store. This will be the prime location for them to come.
9.  Privacy/Proximity to existing homes
    a.  Building is 22 ft tall – so the residents shouldn't see the gas pumps
    b.  Building would be 45 ft setback from south fence line
10. One resident is not in favor of a gas station at all
11. Property values going down is a big concern
    a.  Resident is wondering if the applicant can do a study to see if home values have gone
        down around other 7-Elevens
12. Is there a chance that this project will not happen?
13. 700 W – there are a lot of semi-trucks being parking on the road – this is an issue the city needs
    to look into

10000 Centennial Parkway | Sandy, Utah 84070 | p: 801.568.7250 | f: 801.568.7278 | sandy.utah.gov

---

Neighborhood Meeting – Sign-In Sheet
September 12, 2018

[Handwritten sign-in sheet, columns: Name | Email | Cell Phone Number. Handwriting partly illegible; best readings below.]

1.  Winnie R[illegible] | Winnim[illegible]@outlook.com | [illegible] 801-676-6606
2.  Jim Kandolin | jakandoli@outlook.com | 801-674-7859
3.  Randy Page | rpage61@gmail.com | 801-259-1073
4.  Brett Rhodehouse | brett@rhodehouse.net | 801-942-6752
5.  Pete Keers | [illegible]@yahoo.com | 801-721-1990
6.  Angela Salerno | crnaangie@outlook.com | 801-389-7009
7.  Chas Peterson | Chase.Peterson@7-11.com | 385-218-1103
8.–13.  [blank]

---

Neighborhood Meeting – Sign-In Sheet
September 12, 2018

[Handwritten sign-in sheet, columns: Name | Email | Cell Phone Number. Handwriting partly illegible; best readings below.]

1.  Ken Dempsey | kd1114@msn.com | 801-979-1339
2.  Meghan Thompson | meghanjrnii[illegible]@gmail.com | 801-455-0117
3.  Gor Tolentino | gtolentino@hotmail.com | 801-244-7527
4.  Jen Archuleta | jenni.archuleta@gmail.com | 801-793-0563
5.  Jenny Sosa | jennijjbren@hotmail.com | 801-953-0197
6.–13.  [blank]

---

CONDITIONAL USE EXPLAINATION LETTER

Sandy City Staff and Public Officials,

As part of the application for this product, we are requesting approval for two conditional uses
that are important to the permitted use of the property.  24 hour business operation and sale
of alcohol on the premises.

Staff has expressed concerns about headlights, store lighting and noise that may occur due to
business operation after the hours of 10:00 pm.  Some ideas on how to mitigate these may
include building height and placement, lighting considerations, fencing/screening etc.  We are
prepared to discuss and implement these ideas through discussions with the cit.  We look
forward to the city identifying any issues related to the sale of alcohol that we can mitigate.

These conditional uses will allow for a small amount of traffic to access the property during the
night.

These conditional uses are not in contrast to the public interest.  Gas stations provide an
important service to the community via the accessibility of fuel, food, and other items offered
for sale.  These conditional uses are important to the success of the permitted use and
therefore keep the character of the zone.

Thank you for your consideration.

Logan Johnson
Wright Development Group

---

[photo page 18 — nighttime photograph of a gas station with lighted canopy and fuel pumps — no text]

---

[Sandy logo — HEART OF THE WASATCH]

Sandy City, Utah                                    10000 Centennial Parkway
                                                    Sandy, UT 84070
Meeting Minutes                                     Phone: 801-568-7256

Planning Commission

Joe Baker
Dave Bromley
Monica Collard
Ron Mortimer
Cyndi Sharkey
Cory Shupe
Jamie Tsandes
Michael Christopherson (Alternate)
Jeff Lovell (Alternate)

Thursday, October 18, 2018            6:15 PM            Council Chambers

Meeting procedures are found at the end of this agenda.

Voting Roll Call

4:00 PM  FIELD TRIP

1.    18-401        Field Trip Map

6:15 PM  REGULAR SESSION

Roll Call

              Staff: James Sorensen, Community Development Director; Brian McCuistion,
              Planning Director; Wade Sanner, Planner; Doug Wheelwright, Development
              Services Manager; Matt Huish, CAO; Steve Osborn, Sr. City Attorney; Britney
              Ward, Transportation Engineer; Ryan Kump, City Engineer; Raima Fleming,
              Planning Secretary
    Present  5 -  Commissioner Joe Baker
                  Commissioner Cyndi Sharkey
                  Commissioner Jamie Tsandes
                  Commissioner Michael Christopherson
                  Commissioner Jeff Lovell
    Absent   4 -  Commissioner Dave Bromley
                  Commissioner Monica Collard
                  Commissioner Cory Shupe
                  Commissioner Ron Mortimer

Welcome

Pledge of Allegiance

Introductions

Sandy City, Utah                    Page 1                    Printed on 12/13/2018

---

Planning Commission          Meeting Minutes          October 18, 2018

              Absent:  4 -  Dave Bromley
                            Monica Collard
                            Cory Shupe
                            Ron Mortimer

14.   CUP-07-18-5    7-Eleven Convenience Store with Gasoline Sales and 24/7 Operating
      462            Hours
                     711 W. 9000 South Street
                     [Civic Center, Community #2]

              Doug Wheelwright introduced this item to the Planning Commission. He said that he had
              been working with the applicant for six months, during which time the applicant has
              followed some of his suggestions on mitigating the problems of the conditional use, but
              not all. The zoning provides that adding gas pumps is a separate consideration, which is
              why it is a conditional use; likewise, increasing the hours past the usual business hours
              of 6:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. also requires a conditional use because this is within 250 feet
              of a residential district. He recalled the community meetings at which numerous
              concerns were addressed by residents, which he addressed in part in his staff report. He
              explained that the conditional use and site plan address the east part of the property
              owned by the applicants, which is the site to be used for the convenience store and gas
              station. He said the applicant will use the west parcel for a storm retention pond. The
              applicant has agreed to extend the wall and the landscaping on the south side of the
              property, He said that the noise, and other effects from the store and the gas operation
              cannot be reasonably mitigated during the late night hours, so that is why he
              recommended increasing the normally allowed hours only until midnight, he didn't feel
              that staying open 24 hours was appropriate in such close proximity to single family
              homes.

              Commissioner Michael Christopherson asked staff if there are other detrimental
              impacts the Planning Commission should know regarding the gasoline sales or
              extended hours request.

              Doug Wheelwright stated it was pointed out during the field trip that the
              headlights from cars turning into the site from the east side off 700 West Street
              would shine across the residences on the west. He also stated this impact
              might be mitigated by the height of a wall, but he hadn't analyzed that yet.  Of
              course, if the store was not open during the post-midnight hours, then that
              problem would not need to be addressed.

              Justin Atwater, Applicant, spoke about permitted uses and reasons why this
              item should be approved. He said he wanted to focus on the issue that Doug
              Wheelwright talked about (staying open past midnight) but that everything else
              in the staff report was accurate according to his understanding.  He said, among
              other things, that he would consider erecting a ten-foot-high fence along the
              south property line. He said the odors to the site are no worse than odors from
              permitted uses.  The noise brought to the site is not detectable to the human
              ear, especially given the sites unique characteristics.  Opening and closing
              doors, and talking, given the eight or ten-foot wall, together with the landscaping,
              and orientation of the building, any new noises brought to the site will be less
              than the existing noises from the roads nearby.  As to crime, he said that isn't

Sandy City, Utah                    Page 10                    Printed on 12/13/2018

---

Planning Commission          Meeting Minutes          October 18, 2018

              relevant to analysis of a conditional use since other uses could also bring crime.
              Staying open all night reduces the risk of crime because the store is open, and
              there is a clerk there, which reduces crime.

              Commissioner Jamie Tsandes stated the proposed site is close to the river
              bottom. Because there will be underground tanks, she asked what the depth to
              ground water is.

              Logan Johnson stated he is not sure. He also stated he is not opposed to
              considering a 10-foot wall.

              Commissioner Cyndi Sharkey asked about headlights coming in from 700 west.

              Logan Johnson stated the proposed site would be a traffic interceptor not a
              destination. Cars traveling to this store would be traveling towards the store
              already. He stated his view is that traffic is already there and would be already
              presenting an issue. He believes the height of the 10-foot wall should mitigate
              the concerns.

              The Planning Commissioners, the applicant, and staff had discussion about the
              disturbance from car headlights, other detrimental impacts, and the land use.

              The Chair opened this item to public comment.

              Jen Archuletta, 734 West Jordan Oaks Drive, Sandy, lives in a home behind
              the property, stated she is concerned about the crime, light and the noise from
              the store and gas station. She also stated that although the 10-foot wall would
              be great for her living room, but that her bedroom is on the second floor and the
              light will shine in her bedroom from 12 a.m. to 6 a.m., and will be very
              detrimental, and won't protect her and her neighbors from those problems.  She
              thinks they will hear the noises form the property, in spite of what the applicant
              says. She said she has seen a significant increase in transients living along
              the Jordan River near her home.  The two-hour on-line training which the
              applicant said the 7-Eleven company provides to its clerks to deal with such
              issues will be insufficient to deal with the problems of homeless and crime
              caused by the location of the store.

              Seung Ho Mun, who goes by the name "Bruce," 728 West Jordan Oaks Drive, Sandy,
              lives directly behind the planned store, stated he has a problem with gas and alcohol
              sales, and noise. He doesn't want deliveries during the night hours.  He said he would be
              able to hear the noise from the property, music from cars. A ten-foot wall won't do
              anything.  The headlights cars on the store property coming from 700 West will shine into
              their homes.

              Jeremiah Johnson, 722 West Jordan Oaks Drive, Sandy, lives directly behind
              the subject property, said he is a land developer, and understands the owner
              has a right to develop.  He said that his home, and the others in his
              neighborhood are nice homes, on which a lot of money was spent, the value of
              which will be adversely impacted by the 7-Eleven store. Our lives are affected

Sandy City, Utah                    Page 11                    Printed on 12/13/2018

---

Planning Commission          Meeting Minutes          October 18, 2018

              by this development.  He said he is worried about the safety of his family and
              children.  The slope of the property from his yard to the 7-Eleven property is
              such that the six-foot fence is not much of a barrier to entry.  Even a ten-foot
              wall won't block headlights coming into their homes; he is already affected by
              headlights now.  He said he would be able to hear sounds coming from the
              7-Eleven property over the ten-foot wall, which won't block a lot of the noise
              from the property; it would have to be a tall barrier wall such as those UDOT
              installs along freeways. The ten-foot wall isn't nearly high enough to be effective
              at blocking noise.  He thought that the store should be built on the west side of
              the applicant's property. Home break-ins have increased in the neighborhood
              recently.

              Steve Van Maren stated looking at the online documents, he could not find the applicants
              response to the staff report.

              Commissioner Michael Christopherson stated the Planning Commission members
              received the applicants response just a day ago. It most likely hasn't been made available
              online yet.

              The Chair closed this item to public comment.

              Commissioner Jamie Tsandes asked staff about the depth of the ground water.

              Ryan Kump replied it has been a long time since he reviewed the geo reports, so
              he doesn't have the exact number memorized. He also stated the closer you get
              to the river, the ground water is at zero feet. That is the reason why homes on
              the far west of the neighborhood to the south don't have basements. As you get
              closer to 700 West within the subdivision to the south, the ground water starts to
              drop. Those homes can have half depth basements.

              The Planning Commissioners and staff had discussion on the depth of ground water and
              flood retention.

              The Planning Commission had discussion about this item and how this convenience
              store is a permitted use in the zone.

              The Planning Commission members and staff had discussion about Conditional Use
              Permits and how things could be mitigated.

              A motion was made by Cyndi Sharkey, seconded by Joe Baker, that the Planning
              Commission grant the Conditional Use requests to allow the gasoline sales use
              and to extended business hours to 6:00 A.M. to Midnight, based on the staff
              report, the staff findings 1 to 15 in the analysis of the Conditional Use Standards
              and the three additional findings and five conditions listed in the staff report with
              an added sixth condition to read: 6. Dense landscape screening to be included,
              defined as additional Conifer trees with 10% overlap, with trees reaching 20-feet
              at maturity. The motion carried by the following vote:

              Yes:  4 -  Joe Baker
                         Cyndi Sharkey
                         Jamie Tsandes
                         Jeff Lovell

Sandy City, Utah                    Page 12                    Printed on 12/13/2018

---

Planning Commission          Meeting Minutes          October 18, 2018

              No:  1 -  Michael Christopherson

              Absent:  4 -  Dave Bromley
                            Monica Collard
                            Cory Shupe
                            Ron Mortimer

15.   SPR-07-18-5    7-Eleven Convenience Store Site Plan
      461            711 W. 9000 South Street
                     [Civic Center, Community #2]

              The Chair opened this item to public comment.

              All comments were made during the CUP review of this item as it relates to item 14

              A motion was made by Joe Baker, seconded by Jeff Lovell, that the Planning
              Commission determine that preliminary site plan review is complete, based on
              two findings and nine conditions listed in the staff report. The motion carried by
              the following vote:

              Yes:  5 -  Joe Baker
                         Cyndi Sharkey
                         Jamie Tsandes
                         Michael Christopherson
                         Jeff Lovell

              Absent:  4 -  Dave Bromley
                            Monica Collard
                            Cory Shupe
                            Ron Mortimer

16.   SUB-07-18-5    Riverside Commons Subdivision
      463            711 W. 9000 South Street
                     [Civic Center, Community #2]

              The Chair opened this item to public comment.

              All comments were made during the CUP review of this item as it relates to items 14 &
              15

              A motion was made by Cyndi Sharkey, seconded by Joe Baker, that the Planning
              Commission determine that preliminary review is complete for the Riverside
              Commons two-lot commercial subdivision based on the two findings and two
              conditions listed in the staff report. The motion carried by the following vote:

              Yes:  5 -  Joe Baker
                         Cyndi Sharkey
                         Jamie Tsandes
                         Michael Christopherson
                         Jeff Lovell

              Absent:  4 -  Dave Bromley
                            Monica Collard
                            Cory Shupe
                            Ron Mortimer

Sandy City, Utah                    Page 13                    Printed on 12/13/2018
