                                 MEMORANDUM
                                         September 10, 2020


 To:         City Council via Planning Commission
 From:       Community Development Department
 Subject:    Amend Public Notice Requirements                                     CODE-09-20-5907
             Amend Title 21, Chapter 36, Notice Requirements, of the
             Sandy Municipal Code


HEARING NOTICE: This item has been noticed on public websites, and in the newspaper at least
                10 days prior to the Public Hearing.



REQUEST
On behalf of the City, the Community Development Department is proposing to amend Title 21,
Chapter 36, Notice Requirements, of the Sandy Municipal Code. The purpose of the Code Amendment
is to align the development code regulations with recent amendments to State requirements. This
proposal will also exceed certain minimum State mandated noticing requirements on certain types
of land use applications, by requiring both mailed and physical posting of public notice of public
meetings. The full text of the proposed changes are shown in Exhibit “A” (final draft – no redline
format) and Exhibit “B” (final draft – redline format).


BACKGROUND
The City Council has discussed making changes to our public notice process at a couple recent
meetings. Staff assisted the Council in creating an initial draft of some proposed changes to Title 21-
36-2, focused on requiring posting physical notice to the affected properties (see Exhibit
C”). On August 25, 2020, the Council approved a motion to move forward with the proposed
amendment through the formal code amendment process.

In recent years, the State Code has been amended several times, but our City Code hasn’t had any
revisions to it since 2008. While staff reviewed the entire chapter, we found that it would be
appropriate to incorporate several amendments to this chapter to align it with State Code and City
Policies.
Amend Public Notice Requirements – CODE-09-20-5907                                              Page - 2 -



ANALYSIS
The initial code amendment draft from the City Council (see exhibit “C”) included three main changes
to the existing section 21-36-2. First was to increase the radius of mailing to property owners
surrounding the subject property to 500 feet. This change matches current practice by staff. Second
change was to further define the standards for posting a public notice sign to a property. The third
added a requirement for certain applications to require both mailed notice and physical public notice
sign posted to the subject property.

As staff reviewed this chapter in greater depth, it was discovered that larger changes to this entire
chapter were needed to address changes to the State Code and make sure the entire chapter aligned
with the proposed changes requested by the City Council. As a result, staff has essentially re-written
and reorganized the entire chapter.

Staff has eliminated any code sections that are directly repeating state code, such as existing section
21-36-1, and those that no longer are applicable or needed, such as 21-36-5 and 21-36-7 (see Exhibit
“D” – existing code). We have moved and added to the existing section 21-36-9, to replace 21-36-1.
This revised first section establishes minimum requirements for public notices that are no longer
established by State Code. It clarifies and codifies existing practices and administration of public
notices for both public meetings and public hearings.

The second section addresses notifications to third-parties, which means neighboring property
owners. Staff has incorporated the draft changes that the City Council directed staff to incorporate
into the code. Staff is proposing some additional modifications to the initial draft (see Exhibit “C” for
reference) that further refine the requirements of this section. Those changes are outlined as follows:

    -   Included clarifying language to section (a) that these notices are required when concerning a
        specific parcel of property, and language that these regulations do not exempt State Code
        regulations.
    -   In subsection (a)(1), staff is proposing to increase the mailed notices to be postmarked at
        least five (5) days prior to the city meeting. Staff has also moved clarifying language from the
        former section (c) that these notices will be mailed to any owner of property within the 500
        foot radius, regardless of whether they are within city boundaries.
    -   Added clarifying language that when posting a property with a physical notice sign, that it is
        to be done at least ten (10) days prior to the city meeting.
    -   In section (b), staff has clarified types of land use applications (and provided some
        clarification to limit certain applications that aren’t near residential properties) that would
        require both types of public notice (mailed and physical sign posted). Staff eliminated
        variances from these land use applications that was shown in the original draft. Staff felt that
        the original intent of requiring posting of a public notice sign to the property was intended
        for applications that could constitute a large/major change to the area. Variances don’t fit that
        criteria as they are very rare and usually don’t consider a major change.
    -   Staff has eliminated the proposed section (c), as that language was incorporated into (a)(1).

In the third section of this chapter, staff has included references to certain cases that require different
public notice requirements. Rather than copy those codes verbatim, they are only referenced with a
title specifying the land use application that applies to those differing standards. This way, we won’t
need to alter our city code should the state law change.
Amend Public Notice Requirements – CODE-09-20-5907                                                Page - 3 -



In summary, we have kept and refined language of this chapter that are not included in the state code
or go above or beyond the minimum requirements established in state code. All other sections merely
reference the requirements found in state statutes.

Staff would also point out the potential impacts of this proposed amendment. The proposed changes
will provide more notice to the neighboring property owners by increasing the required mailing time,
the increased radius, and the requirement to post the property on some applications. Conversely, this
may cause some delays to the applicants in processing their advancement to the Planning
Commission or City Council.


NON-CONFORMING USES
This Code Amendment would not create any non-conforming use situations.


LAND DEVELOPMENT CODE PURPOSE COMPLIANCE
The Sandy City Land Development Code in 21-1-3 lists the criteria explaining the intent and
purpose of the Ordinance. The purpose is:

       21-1-3 Purpose
       This Code is adopted to implement Sandy City’s General Plan and to promote: public
       health, safety, convenience, aesthetics, welfare; efficient use of land; sustainable land use
       and building practices; transportation options and accessibility; crime prevention; timely
       citizen involvement in land use decision making; and efficiency in development review
       and land use administration. Specifically, this Code is established to promote the
       following purposes:

       1. General
          a. To facilitate the orderly growth and development of Sandy City.
          b. To facilitate adequate provision for transportation, water, sewage, schools, parks, and
             other public requirements.
          c. To stabilize property values.
          d. To enhance the economic well-being of Sandy City and its inhabitants.

       2. Implementation of General Plan
          To coordinate and ensure the implementation of the City’s General Plan through effective
          execution of development review requirements, adequate facility and services review and
          other goals, policies, or programs contained in the General Plan.

       3. Comprehensive, Consistent and Equitable Regulations
          To establish a system of fair, comprehensive, consistent and equitable regulations, standards
          and procedures for review and approval of all proposed land development within the City.

       4. Efficiently and Effectively Managed Procedures
          a. To promote fair procedures that are efficient and effective in terms of time and expense.
          b. To be effective and responsive in terms of the allocation of authority and delegation of
              powers and duties among ministerial, appointed, and elected officials.
          c. To foster a positive customer service attitude and to respect the rights of all applicants
              and affected citizens.
Amend Public Notice Requirements – CODE-09-20-5907                                                 Page - 4 -




The proposed Code Amendment would promote fair procedures that are efficient and effective. It
would also respect the rights of all applicants and affected citizens.



GENERAL PLAN COMPLIANCE
The General Plan encourages citizen involvement (see Goal 3.0 of the Growth, Land Use and
Community Identity section of the General Plan). This code amendment would further that goal and
objective.


STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission forward a positive recommendation amend Title
21, Chapter 36, Notice Requirements, of the Sandy Municipal Code, as shown in (Exhibit “A”) based
on the following findings:

1.      Compliance with the Purpose of the Land Development Code by creating consistency and
        equitable standards in Sandy City.

2.      Compliance with the Goals and Policies of the General Plan by encouraging citizen
        participation in Sandy City that will invite public input and to inform and involve citizens in
        the planning process.


Planner:                                  Reviewed by:




Mike Wilcox
Zoning Administrator

File Name: S:\USERS\PLN\STAFFRPT\2020\CODE-09-20-5907 AMEND PUBLIC NOTICE REQUIREMENTS\STAFF REPORT.DOCX
