SANDY CITY COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT

JAMES SORENSEN
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
DIRECTOR

KURT BRADBURN
MAYOR

MATTHEW HUISH
CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER

MEMORANDUM
June 18, 2020

To:        Planning Commission
From:      Community Development Department
Subject:   Willow Canyon Living, LLC (Category II Home     CUP-05-20-5858
           Occupation)                                     Zone: R-1-8
           9853 E. Glendover Way
           [Community #17- Willow Canyon]

HEARING NOTICE:  This item has been noticed to property owners within 500 feet of the subject area.

PROPERTY CASE HISTORY
Case Number      | Case Summary
                 | None

DESCRIPTION OF REQUEST AND BACKGROUND
The applicant, Cyndie Albert for Willow Canyon Living, is requesting that the Planning Commission consider a request for a conditional use permit (CUP) to allow for an adult daycare Category II home occupation (See Exhibit #1 – Application Materials). The property is located in the R-1-8 zone and is 0.2 acres (8, 300 square feet).

Willow Canyon Living is proposing to operate an adult daycare for adults 18+ with intellectual and developmental disabilities.  The applicant plans on having daily activities including arts and crafts, a meal or snack, and other group activities. The applicant is requesting the maximum of 12 business related visitors/customers per day. This means that 12 business related persons are permitted to come to the house per day which includes an employee and those being cared for.

The property is located on the northeast side of Glendover Way between Tameron Dr. and Pinehurst Dr. The property is part of the White City 35 subdivision. Access to the property is via an approximately 1500 square foot driveway on the north side of the home.

10000 Centennial Parkway  |  Sandy, Utah 84070  |  p: 801.568.7250  |  f: 801.568.7278  |  sandy.utah.gov

---
[page 2]

Willow Canyon Living, LLC  :  CUP-05-20-5858          Page 2

ANALYSIS
The Sandy City Land Development Code identifies regulations for home occupations. Home occupations are classified as a Category I, permitted home occupations, or Category II conditional use home occupations.  A Category II conditional use home occupation requires review and approval by the Planning Commission.

All home occupations must comply with a list of standards.  Examples of such standards include bona fide resident, number of employees, off-street parking, appearance of single-family dwelling, etc. In addition to the standards, all Category I home occupations must comply with the qualifications that are outlined in the ordinance.  Examples include hours of operation, traffic, limits on the number of children in a day care and group child activities, etc.

If a business finds that they are unable to fully comply with all of the qualifications the applicant may pursue possible approval as a Category II home occupation through the conditional use process before submitting the application for a home occupation business license.

The ordinance includes a list of specific Category II home occupations.  One of those includes a home occupation that generates excessive traffic (more than what is allowed as a Category I home occupation, which is two customer/visitors per hour or eight per day) (Section 21-11-05 (f)(9)).

This particular request would fall within a Category II home occupation due to the fact that the applicant is requesting to have up to 12 customers per day at her home for this adult day care. This number does include any employees.

One of the home occupation standards is related to employees.  One full-time or full-time equivalent nonresident may be employed, volunteer, or work on the premises where the home occupation business is located.  No more than two persons shall comprise the equivalent full-time employee, and only one nonresident may work at the home at one time (Section 21-11-05(d)(4).

The applicant is proposing to have two part-time employees and is aware that she is not permitted to have more than one employee on site at a time. It is anticipated that each of the clients will be dropped-off at the home Monday through Friday from 9:00 am to 3:00 pm.  The applicant has informed staff that she would like to purchase a van in the future to pick-up the clients rather than have every person dropped-off.

In addition to city requirements, the applicant must also comply with all State Adult Day Care licensure requirements. The applicant is aware that she must meet State requirements and that in the case where there are differentiating ordinances the applicant must comply with whichever ordinance is more stringent in order to meet the requirements for both.

COMPLIANCE WITH SECTION 21-33-04
Staff response in italics.

---
[page 3]

Willow Canyon Living, LLC  :  CUP-05-20-5858          Page 3

Conditions.  In order to achieve compliance with the standards set forth herein, the City may impose conditions, which address standards 21-33-03 "1" to "15", as contained in the Sandy City Development Code.  This proposed conditional use meets or satisfies all of Conditions "1" through "15", except the following conditions, which merit discussion or additional consideration by the Planning Commission:

2.    Proposed site ingress and egress existing and proposed roads and streets.
The applicant has a two-car garage and an additional parking pad. Access to the property will be from the existing driveway.

5.    Site circulation patterns for vehicular, pedestrian and other traffic.
Vehicular traffic will utilize the street frontage and existing driveway on the north side of the property. The subject property has more street frontage than the average lot in this neighborhood, based upon the bend in the road.  The applicant will work with her customers to make sure the drop-off and pick-ups occur in front of her home versus other homes in the neighborhood.

The Sandy City Transportation Engineer has reviewed this request and is comfortable with the amount of trips this may generate.  A public street is able to accommodate several thousand trips a day.

15. Such other conditions determined reasonable and necessary by the City to allow the operation of the proposed conditional use, at the proposed location in compliance with the requirements of this Code.
That the applicant complies with all Building & Safety, and Fire & Life Codes.

NOTICE
A neighborhood meeting was held on Wednesday, June 10 at 7:00 PM by the Community Development Department.  There were 19 attendees for the approximately 1.5 hour zoom meeting.  A list of the concerns discussed include:

   1. This area is zoned for single family dwellings, not for commercial businesses.
   2. Concern over whether or not this location is the primary residence of the applicant.
   3. Applicant initially wanted to operate an assisted living facility with four residents but has changed her mind due to Covid-19 restrictions.  Concern over the business changing again in the future and misinformation to the neighbors.
   4. Decrease in property values.
   5. Increase in traffic (and concern of being on the bend and not being able to see children in the area).
   6. How is the applicant (and one employee) going to handle that many clients.
   7. Concern over the type of clients that the applicant may take in (behavioral or those addicted to drugs, etc)
   8. Neighbors felt like the approval was a done deal so why have the meeting.
   9. Neighbors would like to have the Planning Commission meeting at a park versus through zoom.

---
[page 4]

Willow Canyon Living, LLC  :  CUP-05-20-5858          Page 4

Notices were mailed to the property owners within a 500-foot radius of the subject parcels in advance of the Planning Commission meeting.

CONCERNS
The Land Development Code does allow for specific businesses to operate from a home. However, there are limits established for these specific businesses.  If approved, the applicant must comply with these limitations and any other condition of approval that is deemed appropriate by the Planning Commission.  The applicant has informed staff that the type of clients coming to the home will be those with special needs such as down syndrome or autism.  She is willing to comply with Sandy City and State requirements for this type of business.

STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission approve a Conditional Use Permit to allow for Willow Canyon Living to operate a Category II home occupation that allows up to a maximum of 12 related customers (including employees) for an adult day care at 9853 S. Glendover Way based on the two findings and five conditions:

Finding
   1. The proposed use meets the intent of the home occupation section of the Sandy City Land Development Code.
   2. The applicant is aware of, and is willing to comply with all regulations applicable to this type of home occupation.

Conditions
   1. That the applicant comply with City and State (including Health Department) licensure requirements for an Adult Day Care.

   2. That the proposed business comply with all applicable Building & Safety, and Fire & Life Codes.

   3. That the applicant be responsible for meeting all provisions of the Sandy City Development Code, and all conditions of approval imposed by the Planning Commission to mitigate reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use.

   4. That the applicant obtain a business license from the Community Development Department.

   5. That the applicant or an aid assist at curbside with the directing of traffic and the loading/unloading of clients. Patrons shall not block driveway entrances to neighboring properties.

   6. That the use be reviewed upon legitimate complaint.

Planner: _______________________          Reviewed by: _____ [initials]
Claire Hague, Planner
S:\USERS\PLN\STAFFRPT\2020\CUP-05-20-5858 Willow Canyon Living

---
[page 5]

Willow Canyon Living, LLC  :  CUP-05-20-5858          Page 5

Exhibit #1 – Application Materials

---
[page 6]

Willow Canyon Living, LLC
9853 South Glendover Way
Sandy, UT 84092

801-696-8760

willowcanyonutah@gmail.com

5/19/2020

Cyndie Albert
Willow Canyon Living, LLC
9853 South Glendover Way
Sandy UT, 84092

Dear Community Development;

My intent and purpose is to run an adult day program located in my residential home located at 9853 South Glendover Way Sandy, UT 84092.

Business hours 9:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. Monday through Friday

I have read the permit requirements for the number that I may have in my home. This intent is keeping with the character of the existing zoning area.

The property has ample parking for drop off and pick up and employee parking as well as curb side parking if needed.

We have passed all inspections respectfully with Sandy City, Fire Department and the state department.

Cyndie Albert

Willow Canyon Living, LLC

---
[page 7]

Willow Canyon Living, LLC  :  CUP-05-20-5858          Page 6

Exhibit #2- Vicinity Map

---
[page 8]
[map/plat page 8 — no text]
Vicinity/aerial parcel map. Street labels: Ridgemark Dr, Bainbridge Rd, Sandridge Dr, Tameron Dr, Glendover Way, Pinehurst Dr, Shalisan Cir, Budding Dr, Sandys Grove Ln, Albury Rd, Countrywood Dr, Weybridge Ln, 9800 S, 1700 E. "Subject Property" callout. Numerous parcel address labels. Title block: "CUP-05-20-5858 / Willow Canyon Living Adult Day Care / 9853 S. Glendover Way". "PRODUCED BY DAVID RODGERS / THE COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT". Scale bar: 0 50 100 200 300 400 500 Feet. North arrow.
