                              MEMORANDUM
                                          May 7, 2020


 To:          Planning Commission
 From:        Community Development Department
 Subject:     Alta Canyon Park Pickleball Courts – Amended CUP               SPR-03-20-5822
              and Preliminary Site Plan Review                               CUP-04-20-5839
              9565 S. Highland Dr.                                                 8.1 Acres
              [Community #20 – Little Cottonwood]                       OS Zone (Open Space)


HEARING NOTICE: This item has been noticed to property owners within 500 feet of the subject
                area.



                                  PROPERTY CASE HISTORY
  CASE NUMBER                                      CASE SUMMARY
    CUP 83-21         Alta Canyon Recreation Center
                      Alta Canyon Park was approved for baseball diamonds, tennis courts,
     SPR 83-30
                      pool, recreation center, and parking.
     SPR 08-18        In 2009, an expansion of the recreation center building was approved.
   SPR 3-17-5230      Site Plan Review for Alta Canyon Park Pickleball Courts (Tabled)

REQUEST
The Sandy City Parks & Recreation Department has submitted an application for an amended
Conditional Use Permit and is requesting that the Planning Commission determine preliminary
review is complete for the Alta Canyon pickleball courts project. The proposal is part of the 8.1
acre Alta Canyon Park. The request is proposing to add four pickleball courts and also add an
additional parking lot to the east of the courts.

BACKGROUND
The property is bordered by a commercial area to the west and northwest. To the south are single
family homes in the SD(Magna) R(3.75) zone. The east boundary borders single family
residences in the SD(Magna) R(4.25) zone. To the north of the proposed amenities are a parking
lot, the baseball fields and swimming pool. The area of the proposed project is the southern
portion of Alta Canyon Park south of the south parking lot.
Alta Canyon Pickleball Courts – SPR-01-20-5794; CUP-04-20-5839
                                                                                          Page - 2 -

The proposal for pickleball courts was previously presented to the Planning Commission during
a meeting on May 12, 2017. At that time the primary concerns expressed by residents had to do
with the noise generated by pickleball activities, potential spillover of light onto the adjacent
private properties, and inadequate parking.

NOTICE
Notices were mailed to property owners within a 500-foot radius of the subject parcel to notify
them of the Planning Commission meeting. One neighborhood meeting was held for this project
at the Alta Canyon Sports Center on April 26, 2017. 18 Residents attended the meeting. A second
neighborhood meeting was held on October 9, 2018 in the Sandy City Hall multi-purpose room.
20 residents attended the meeting. The minutes of these meetings are attached.

ANALYSIS

Pickleball Courts location
The pickleball courts would be constructed in the southern portion of Alta Canyon Park. There
is an existing parking lot to the north of the proposed location. That parking lot will remain.

In the initial 2017 proposal six pickleball courts were planned. Under the current proposal the
number has been reduced to a total of four. This will allow additional space for the new parking
lot to the east, and will also increase the distance from the adjacent residences to the east to help
mitigate noise and light. The original site plan in 2017 showed the pickleball courts
approximately 55 feet from the nearest residence to the east. The new site plan locates them
approximately 230 feet from the residence.

Access and Parking:
Access will remain unchanged from what currently exists at the park today. An additional
parking lot is proposed to be constructed immediately east of the pickleball courts, and south of
the existing parking lot. Parking was a concern for multiple residents during the neighborhood
meetings. They asked if it would be possible to decrease the number of courts and add additional
parking. This site plan reflects those changes – decreasing the number of pickleball courts from
six to four, and adding the additional parking lot.

Lighting
Lighting is proposed to be installed at the corners of the pickleball courts area. The lights to the
north will also provide additional lighting for the existing parking lot for enhanced visibility
and safety. The lights will be turned off at 10:00 p.m. nightly. The park hours are until 10:30
p.m. to enable park users time to leave the area without trespassing.

CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT:

Per Section 21-10-1 of the Sandy City Land Development Code, all developments in the OS
(Open Space) District shall be reviewed and approved by the Planning Commission.

COMPLIANCE WITH SECTION 21-33-4
Staff response in italics.
Alta Canyon Pickleball Courts – SPR-01-20-5794; CUP-04-20-5839
                                                                                          Page - 3 -
   Conditions. In order to achieve compliance with the standards set forth herein, the
   City may impose conditions, which address standards 21-33-3(1.a) to (1.i), as contained
   in the Sandy City Development Code. This proposed conditional use meets or satisfies
   all of Conditions 1 through 15, except the following conditions, which merit discussion
   or additional consideration by the Planning Commission:

   2. Proposed site ingress and egress existing and proposed roads and streets.
      The ingress and egress from Highland Drive to the pickleball courts uses the
      already-existing access point located at the southwest corner of the park. The road
      leads to the existing parking lot, and to the proposed additional parking lot. This
      single access should be sufficient for the adjacent uses, which are comprised of a
      baseball field and the pickleball courts.

   4. Design, location and amount of off-street parking, loading areas and solid waste
      disposal and collection areas.
      The amount of off-street parking required is not regulated by ordinance. The
      project includes keeping the existing parking lot with 39 parking stalls. It also
      proposes constructing an additional lot with 45 parking stalls. The project more
      than doubles the available parking, which should be a sufficient amount to handle
      the use of the four new pickleball courts.

   10. Measures directed at minimizing or eliminating possible nuisance factors, including, but
       not limited to, noise, vibrations, smoke, dust, dirt, debris, plant materials, odors, gases,
       noxious matter, heat, glare, electromagnetic disturbances, and radiation.
       The reduction from six pickleball courts to four, along with the additional distance
       created from the properties to the east will help mitigate the noise generated at the
       pickleball courts. It will also mitigate the light and prevent any potential spillover into
       adjacent properties. Trees will line the southern side of the pickleball courts, and also the
       eastern side of the new parking lot. This will help a little with noise mitigation and
       significantly help mitigate any light nuisance.

   12. The regulation of operating hours for activities affecting normal schedules and functions.
       Per City ordinance 13-1-14, the park is currently open from 6:00 a.m. until 10:30 p.m.
       daily, and this will remain unchanged. The lights at the pickleball courts will shut off at
       10:00 p.m. nightly. This allows park users half an hour to exit the park after the lights
       have shut off. By 10:30 park users must be off the premises.

   13. Identifying a time for regular review and monitoring, as determined necessary, to
       ensure the use continues to operate in compliance with all conditions and
       requirements of approval.
       This conditional use may be reviewed by legitimate complaint.

Concerns
A primary concern brought up by residents previously is the noise generated by the pickleball
courts. The fact that the number of courts have been reduced from six to four, and are proposed
to be located farther from the residences to the east, and behind the sizeable rear yards of the
residences to the south should help mitigate the noise. The courts would be located
approximately 160 feet from the residences to the south, and approximately 230 feet from the
Alta Canyon Pickleball Courts – SPR-01-20-5794; CUP-04-20-5839
                                                                                         Page - 4 -
nearest residence to the east. Additionally, the pickleball court lights would be scheduled to
turn off at 10:00 p.m. nightly to help mitigate late-evening usage, light, and noise,

Staff finds that the proposed project meets the intent of the OS (Open Space) Zone. It will
enhance the open space in the area, while providing additional recreational opportunities for the
public.

STAFF RECOMMENDATION

   1) Staff recommends that the Planning Commission approve an amended conditional
      use permit for pickleball courts in the OS (Open Space) Zone, based upon the following
      findings, and subject to the five conditions listed below:

   Findings:
      1. A pickleball court is categorized as ‘Recreation, outdoor’, which is a conditional use
          in the OS (Open Space) Zone.
      2. The character of the open space is not being altered.
      3. Additional parking is being proposed.
      4. The proposed pickleball courts will add an additional amenity for recreational
          opportunities at Alta Canyon Park.

   2) Staff recommends that the Planning Commission determine that the preliminary site
      plan review is complete for the pickleball courts at Alta Canyon Park, subject to the
      following five conditions:

   Conditions
   1. That the developer proceed through the final site plan review process with staff
      prior to the start of any construction. The final site plan shall be in compliance with all
      Development Code requirements and those modifications required by the Planning
      Commission.

   2. That the development comply with all Building & Safety, Fire and Life Safety Codes
      applicable to this type of use.

   3. That the developer be responsible to meet all provisions of the OS Zone.

   4. That the applicant comply with all department requirements as noted in all
      Preliminary Review letters prior to submittal for final site plan review with staff.

   5. That this use will be reviewed upon legitimate complaint.

Planner:                                                    Reviewed by:



Craig P. Evans                                              Brian McCuistion
Planner                                                     Planning Director
