                                                                                                                           I




                                                                                                                           Ha wkins Ct
                                                        Ln
Cir




                                                     e
              Deer Run Pl




                                                  Hidden Pin
          Little Cottonwood Rd

                                                                                                                                         Granit
            Kelly Brook Dr




                                                                                  Carriagehouse Ln




                                                                                                                2980 E
 2760 E




                                                                                                                            ope L
                                                                                                                  Granite Sl
                                     Chylene Dr




 9725 S                                                 Subject Property
                                                      Laura
                                                               Lane Dr




                                                                                                             9800 S
                                                                         290




                                                      SUB-11-19-5754 & SPEX-02-20-5815
                                                                             0




                                                         Tannenbaum Cove Subdivision
                                                                           E




                                                              2888 Little Cottonwood Rd
                                                                           Feet                                PRODUCED BY CRAIG EVANS
                             0   60 120      240         360     480     600                         COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT
                         D EPARTMENT OF P UBLIC W ORKS
                                                                                              Kurt Bradburn
                                                                                                   Mayor

                                                                                             Matthew Huish
                                                                                         Chief Administrative Officer

                                                                                        Michael Gladbach, P.E.
                                                                                                  Director

                               RECOMMENDATION FOR
                                   PRIVATE LANE
      DATE:          February 26, 2020
      TO:            Craig Evans, Planner
      FROM:          Ryan C. Kump, P.E., City Engineer
      SUBJECT:       Project Name:        Tannenbaum Cove
                     Plan Case Number: SUB 11-19-5754
                     Project Address:     2888 Little Cottonwood Road



      Kevin Ludlow, the developer of the Tannenbaum Cove Subdivision, requests a waiver for
      typical public roadway requirements. Recommendation for approval of this request is
      based on the inability to tie into a residential street network, the incorporation of a
      drainage swale, and to minimize the impacts of grading.

      The parcel being developed is an estate lot with frontage on Little Cottonwood Road
      (State Route 209). The other three sides are all land locked with no stub roads available
      into the property. The previous land use decisions when the surrounding subdivisions
      were approved has created a situation where this development will not tie into any
      existing residential road network. As such, a single access dead-end road of over 500’ but
      less than 750’ is the most efficient and best design for the parcel.

      Should a 52’ public dead-end road be required in this space, significantly more grading
      with associated cuts and fills would be needed. This would also require the removal of
      more native vegetation, add more impervious surfacing, and increase long-term
      maintenance needs for Sandy City.

      The proposed 32’ private lane with adjacent Low Impact Development (LID) swale is
      more context sensitive to the land and allows more flexibility in design of the grading.
      (i.e., less cuts and fills) The proposed 32’ dead end private lane, over 500’, is
      recommended without curb, gutter, or sidewalk. This is appropriate given its private
      nature with low traffic volumes and focus on LID storm water solutions.




8775 SOUTH 700 W EST  SANDY, UTAH 84070  PHONE (801) 568-2999  www.sandy.utah.gov
February 12, 2020

Sandy City Planning Commission
10000 Centennial Parkway
Sandy, Utah 84070


RE: Tannenbaum Cove Subdivision Application – 2888 East Little Cottonwood Road, Plan Case #
SUB-11-19-005754


Dear Planning Commission,

Our application for the above reference property is requesting special exceptions to the Sandy City
Land Development Code in the spirit of developing the property in a way that maintains the
property’s current character. We have listened to the neighborhood’s concerns throughout a
neighborhood meeting and two public hearings and incorporated them into this site design. We
have designed the site in a way that mitigates the public’s greatest concern of conserving as much
of the tree canopy as reasonably possible. In addition to the traditional meetings with officials in
City offices, we have met on site with most City department heads to make sure our course of
thought was correct. We have received the staff’s recommendation on all exceptions we are
requesting.

Below is a detailed response to each special exception requested in our application:

Special Exception required for road length over 500 feet. [Land Development Code section
21-21-10(h)]:

In Section 21-21-10(h)(1), the development code states:

       The Planning Commission may grant a special exception to allow a cul-de-sac, or single access
       road, to extend up to a maximum of 750 feet, after considering a recommendation from the
       Director and City Engineer, and under the following circumstances:

       a. It is demonstrated that the proposed development is land-locked by properties that are
          already fully developed;
       b. No feasible second point of access can be master planned with redevelopment of the
          surrounding properties; and
9055 South 1300 East, Suite 104, Sandy, UT 84094 (p) 801-944-4469 (f) 801-944-4947
                           www.sequoiadevelopment.com
       c. The Director and City Engineer have reviewed the potential for impairment of such single
           access resulting from vehicle congestion, condition of the terrain, climatic conditions or other
           factors that could limit access and have made either a positive or negative recommendation
           to the Planning Commission with regards to increasing the length of the road.

Due to the infill nature of the property, the dimensions of the site, and with no existing stub streets
in the abutting developments, an extended cul-de-sac length is necessary for the site design. We
have met each of the above listed conditions required to meet this exception and have received
Staff’s recommendation.

Special Exception required for private road per City ordinance [Land Development Code
section 21-21-11(a)]:

In Section 21-21-11(a), the development code states:

       Public street systems shall be required for access to all residential dwellings, unless it is
       demonstrated by the developer that a public street cannot be constructed due to the following
       issues: Property width, connectivity (or the inability to connect to the existing street patterns),
       topographical concerns, overall subdivision design, utility connections, and the ability to provide
       service, which includes, but is not limited to, snow plowing, street sweeping, trash collection and
       overall street maintenance.

We are requesting a private street for topographical concerns and the overall subdivision design.
We have designed the site with the intention to save as many trees as possible outside of the
paved asphalt and building footprints. By allowing a private street, we are narrowing the width of
the street and turn-around, which enables us to keep grades closer to natural grades across the site
and save a greater number of trees on the site.

Special Exception required for lots without public frontage. [Land Development Code section
21-21-11(a)]:

In Section 21-21-21(b), the development code states:

       Except as may be otherwise provided in this title, all lots shall have the required frontage upon
       a dedicated and improved street. Exceptions may include the following:

       (1) Residential building lots that do not have frontage upon a public street shall obtain a
           special exception from the Planning Commission as part of the preliminary review process.

We are requesting this special exception based on the necessity of a private road as described
above.
Special Exception required for subdivision without 2 points of ingress/egress. [Land
Development Code section 21-21-10(d)(1)]:

In 21-21-10(d)(1), the development code states:

       The Planning Commission may grant a special exception to allow a subdivision to have only
       one point of ingress/egress, after considering a recommendation from the Director and City
       Engineer, under the following circumstances:

       a. Thirty or fewer lots/units are accessed from the single ingress/egress;
       b. The Director and City Engineer have reviewed the potential for impairment of such single
           access resulting from vehicle congestion, condition of the terrain, climatic conditions or
           other factors that could limit access and have made either a positive or negative
           recommendation to the Planning Commission with regards to a single point of
           ingress/egress; and
       c. The proposed development project has one or more of the following, as determined and
           recommended for approval or denial by the Director and City Engineer to the Planning
           Commission:
                  1. One or more cul-de-sacs, hammerheads, or other approved turn-arounds that
                      comply with all development standards herein.
                  2. ….

Due to the infill nature of the property and with no stub streets existing in the surrounding
developments, a single point of ingress/egress is necessary to develop the land. We have met all
conditions listed above which are required to meet this exception.

Special Exception required for park strip, sidewalk, and curb & gutter waiver. [Land
Development Code section 21-21-10(n)]:

In 21-21-10(n), the development code states:

              Curbs, gutters, park strips, and sidewalks shall be required on all existing and proposed
              public and private street frontage of any lot within a subdivision or legal buildable
              parcel in conformance with the Standard Specifications. The Planning Commission
              may grant a special exception to waive any of these improvements, after considering a
              recommendation from the Director and City Engineer. They shall consider and evaluate
              the following criteria:

              (1) The number of homes within the subdivision
              (2) The length of a cul-de-sac;
              (3) The precedence of adjoining improvements;
              (4) The configuration of lots;
              (5) Where the only other alternative is a private road design;
              (6) Flood control and storm drainage;
              (7) Pedestrian safety and walkable element demands;
              (8) The proposal equitably balances the needs of the public and presents the most
                  efficient use of the land;
              (9) The potential negative impacts created by the waiver(s); and
              (10)   The cumulative effect of all the waivers and any other exceptions requested for
                  the development

We are requesting a private street for topographical concerns and the overall subdivision design.
The most significant concern of the public and neighbors in the neighborhood meeting and
previous public hearings (required for re-zone of the property) was the concern of losing the tree
canopies abutting neighboring properties. Low impact development is used to maintain – as
closely as possible – the benefits of natural site hydrology. This low impact development design will
enable us to keep grades closer to natural grades across the site and save a greater number of
trees on the site. We have received Staff’s recommendation.


We have taken careful consideration of the public’s interest into this design.

Sincerely,




Ashley Atkinson
Sequoia Development, Inc.
9055 South 1300 East #104
Sandy, Utah 84094
              Tree Preservation Parcel Map
Green = Tree to be preserved


Yellow – Tree may be preserved depending on future building footprint
