                               MEMORANDUM
                                        February 12, 2021


 To:        City Council via Planning Commission
 From:      Community Development Department
 Subject:   Amendments Related to Storm Water and Floodplains                CODE-02-21-5989
            Amend Title 21, Chapter 15 – Sensitive Area Overlay Zone;
            Chapter 16 – Floodplain Overlay Zone; Chapter 20 –
            Residential Development Standards; Chapter 22 –
            Manufactured Home Parks; Chapter 23 – Commercial,
            Office, Industrial, and Transit Corridor Development
            Standards; Chapter 24 – Parking, Access, and Circulation;
            Chapter 25 – Landscaping Standards; Chapter 27 – Grading
            and Excavation; Chapter 30 - Subdivision Review; Chapter
            32 – Site Plan Review; and Chapter 37 - Definitions of the
            Sandy Municipal Code.

            Review and Adoption of Amendments to the Standard
            Specifications and Details for Municipal Construction


HEARING NOTICE: This item has been noticed on public websites, and in the newspaper at least
                10 days prior to the Public Hearing.



REQUEST
On behalf of the City, the Public Utilities, Public Works, and Community Development Departments
are proposing to amend several chapters with Title 21 of the Sandy Municipal Code and update the
City’s Standard Specifications and Details for Municipal Construction. The purpose of these
amendments is to update our requirements and standards to better address issues related to proper
storm water management and management of floodplains. This involves incorporating Low Impact
Development (LID) standards throughout these documents. These proposed changes will bring us
into alignment with state and federal standards. The proposed amendments to the Standard
Specifications would also formally adopt several temporary changes, alterations, and amendments.
Storm Water and Floodplain Amendments – CODE-02-21-5989                                            Page - 2 -



The full text of the proposed changes to the Land Development Code is shown in Exhibit “A” (final
draft – no redline format) and Exhibit “B” (final draft – redline format). The final proposed text for the
Standard Specifications along with the redlines are shown in the City Engineer’s Memo.

ANALYSIS
The proposed amendments include amending portions of eleven (11) chapters of the Land
Development Code and a complete re-write of one chapter (see Chapter 21-16 - Floodplain Overlay
Zone). Staff has worked with consulting firms to update our codes and worked across department
disciplines to fine tune and revise our codes and requirements that affect many aspects of the Land
Development Code.

Similar changes have been made to the City’s Standard Specifications and Details for Municipal
Construction as are outlined in the attached memo from the City Engineer that details the proposed
changes.

NON-CONFORMING USES
This Code Amendment would not create any non-conforming use situations.

LAND DEVELOPMENT CODE PURPOSE COMPLIANCE
The Sandy City Land Development Code in 21-1-3 lists the criteria explaining the intent and
purpose of the Ordinance. The purpose is:

        21-1-3 Purpose
        This Code is adopted to implement Sandy City’s General Plan and to promote: public
        health, safety, convenience, aesthetics, welfare; efficient use of land; sustainable land use
        and building practices; transportation options and accessibility; crime prevention; timely
        citizen involvement in land use decision making; and efficiency in development review
        and land use administration. Specifically, this Code is established to promote the
        following purposes:

        1. General
           a. To facilitate the orderly growth and development of Sandy City.
           b. To facilitate adequate provision for transportation, water, sewage, schools, parks, and
              other public requirements.
           c. To stabilize property values.
           d. To enhance the economic well-being of Sandy City and its inhabitants.

        2. Implementation of General Plan
           To coordinate and ensure the implementation of the City’s General Plan through effective
           execution of development review requirements, adequate facility and services review and
           other goals, policies, or programs contained in the General Plan.

        3. Comprehensive, Consistent and Equitable Regulations
           To establish a system of fair, comprehensive, consistent and equitable regulations, standards
           and procedures for review and approval of all proposed land development within the City.

        4. Efficiently and Effectively Managed Procedures
           a. To promote fair procedures that are efficient and effective in terms of time and expense.
           b. To be effective and responsive in terms of the allocation of authority and delegation of
               powers and duties among ministerial, appointed, and elected officials.
Storm Water and Floodplain Amendments – CODE-02-21-5989                                           Page - 3 -



            c. To foster a positive customer service attitude and to respect the rights of all applicants
               and affected citizens.

The proposed Code Amendments and changes to the Standard Specifications will create consistency
and equitable standards in Sandy City. They facilitate the orderly growth and development of Sandy
City and facilitate adequate provision for transportation, water, sewage, schools, parks, and other
public requirements, by establishing a system of fair, comprehensive, consistent, and equitable
regulations, and standards under which all proposed development will be reviewed and evaluated
within the City.

GENERAL PLAN COMPLIANCE
The General Plan has several goals and policies that would be furthered by these proposed
amendments such as:
   • Provide efficient, cost-effective, and environmentally sound storm drain, flood control,
       and treatment facilities to protect existing and future land uses, preserve public safety,
       and protect surface and groundwater quality.
   • Provide standards, guidelines and criteria having the effect of minimizing flooding,
       erosion, and other environmental hazards and to protect natural scenic character of the
       hillsides.

STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission forward a positive recommendation to the City
Council to amend Title 21, Chapter 15 – Sensitive Area Overlay Zone; Chapter 16 – Floodplain Overlay
Zone; Chapter 20 –Residential Development Standards; Chapter 22 – Manufactured Home Parks;
Chapter 23 – Commercial, Office, Industrial, and Transit Corridor Development Standards; Chapter
24 – Parking, Access, and Circulation; Chapter 25 – Landscaping Standards; Chapter 27 – Grading and
Excavation; Chapter 30 - Subdivision Review; Chapter 32 – Site Plan Review; and Chapter 37 -
Definitions of the Sandy Municipal Code, as shown in (Exhibit “A”) based on the following findings:

1.      Compliance with the Purpose of the Land Development Code by creating consistency and
        equitable standards in Sandy City and facilitating the orderly growth and development of Sandy
        City and facilitate adequate provision for transportation, water, sewage, schools, parks, and other
        public requirements, by establishing a system of fair, comprehensive, consistent, and equitable
        regulations, and standards under which all proposed development will be reviewed and evaluated
        within the City.

2.      Compliance with the Goals and Policies of the General Plan by addressing environmentally
        sound storm drain and flood control standards that protect existing and future land uses,
        preserve public safety and water quality.

The Community Development Department also requests that the Planning Commission forward a
positive recommendation to the City Council to adopt the amendments to the City’s Standard
Specifications and Details for Municipal Construction by ordinance as shown in City Engineer’s
Memo.

Planner:
Mike Wilcox
Zoning Administrator
File Name: S:\USERS\PLN\STAFFRPT\2021\CODE_02-21-5989_FLOOD PLAIN AND STORM WATER CHANGES\STAFF REPORT.DOCX
