                                MEMORANDUM
                                           June 17, 2021


 To:          Planning Commission
 From:        Community Development Department
 Subject:     Pioneer Crossing Subdivision (Reconsideration of              MISC06042021-6064
              Condition of Approval Number 16)                                Zone: R-1-7.5(HS)
              143 E. Pioneer Ave. (8530 South)                                       1.22 Acres
              [Community #3 – Sandy Woods]


HEARING NOTICE: This item has been noticed to property owners within 500 feet of the subject
                area.



                                  PROPERTY CASE HISTORY
  Case Number                                      Case Summary
 SUB-8-12-2484       Five- lot single family home subdivision.
 CUP-8-12-2509       Approval for lots without public frontage.

DESCRIPTION OF REQUEST
The applicant, Kyle Borton, is requesting the reconsideration of Condition of Approval number
16 that was approved during the Subdivision review by the Planning Commission on August 30,
2012. (See Exhibit #1- Application Materials)

BACKGROUND
The Pioneer Crossing Subdivision is located at approximately 135 E. Pioneer Avenue. The property is
currently zoned R-1-7.5(HS) as are all properties immediately surrounding it. The property is adjacent
to the TRAX train right-of-way and just north of the Sandy Station Park and Porter Rockwell Trail.
This property is located within the Tier 1 Area of the Historic Sandy Master Plan.

During the Planning Commission meeting held August 30, 2012, the Commission found the
preliminary subdivision review to be complete and it was approved with 17 conditions (See
Exhibit #2 – Pioneer Crossing Minutes). The condition of approval in question is condition 16
which states:
Pioneer Crossing Subdivision – MISC06042021-6064                                            Page - 2 -


“That the front yard areas remain fenceless to preserve an open neighborhood feel. The
developer shall install a 6-foot solid opaque fence along the west and north boundary of the
subdivision. If fencing in the side and rear yards of the homes is desired, that it be a 6-foot solid
opaque fencing. That fencing along the east of the development (along the public trail and
railroad lines) be limited to a 6’ non-opaque fence (i.e. black vinyl coated chain-link) with the
option to use various vegetation to create a sense of privacy and noise attenuation.”

The applicant lives at 143 E. Pioneer Ave which abuts the Porter Rockwell trail and TRAX
railroad lines. The property’s location within the subdivision requires that the fencing be 6’ and
non-opaque per condition 16 of the approved subdivision plat. The applicant is requesting
reconsideration of condition 16 in order to construct opaque fencing along his east property line
to increase privacy and mitigate noise.

NOTICE
Notices were mailed to property owners within a 500 foot radius of the subject parcels as per Sandy
City Land Development Code requirements, to notify them of the Planning Commission meeting.

ANALYSIS
Sandy City Land Development Code does not have a specific requirement for fencing types along
trails or adjacent to railroads. The Development Code does however provide Sandy City with the
right to require fencing on subdivisions abutting railroads. Section 21-21-18 states “The
developer/subdivider may be required to install a six-foot non-climbable fence or its equivalent
along all open ditches, canals, waterways, open reservoirs or other bodies of water, railroad
rights-of-way, and other such features of a potentially hazardous nature, on or contiguous to the
property being subdivided as determined by the Planning Commission.”

The approval of the original condition was based on staff concerns surrounding safety along the
Portal Rockwell Trail expansion. An open style fencing was recommended by staff to ensure
natural observation and increase safety.

Porter Rockwell Trail Expansion
Adjacent to the Pioneer Crossing Subdivision is a future expansion of the Porter Rockwell Trail.
This trail will serve a number of residents across Sandy City as well as provide access to multiple
UTA TRAX stations.

There are two recent subdivisions abutting the Pioneer Crossing Subdivision which are Princeton
Terrace (2020) and The Bungalows in Historic Sandy (2015). Between the three subdivisions this
will provide approximately 216 people (3.05 average person household per 2019 American
Community Survey) pedestrian access to the Porter Rockwell Trail which would be approximately
½ mile from the Historic Sandy Station and ¾ mile from the Midvale Station. This distance is a
little further than the average person is willing to walk (1/4 to ½ mile statistically but well within
a reasonable distance for bike commuters and also a reasonable distance for those willing to walk
a little further.

Sandy City projects that more than just adjacent residents will utilize the trail, but they are the
most directly impacted by the trail expansion.
Pioneer Crossing Subdivision – MISC06042021-6064                                           Page - 3 -


Comparable Subdivisions - Bungalows in Historic Sandy/Princeton Terrace (See Exhibit #3
– Comparable Subdivisions)
The Bungalows in Historic Sandy is a .87 acre, four lot, single family home subdivision that is
directly north of the Pioneer Crossing subdivision. This subdivision was approved in May of 2015.
For this project staff expressed no concerns regarding the fencing of the project along the TRAX
line. (See Exhibit 4- The Bungalows in Historic Sandy Minutes)

The Princeton Terrace Subdivision is a 5.13 acre plot that is directly north of the Bungalows in
Historic Sandy and also adjacent to the TRAX line. Princeton Terrace was approved in May of
2020 and is currently under construction. This development will be a 63-unit development
comprised of 58 townhomes and 5 single family dwellings. In this project staff expressed concerns
that the applicant was not proposing any change to the existing fencing. Because of the concern
expressed by staff the Planning Commission created condition number 8 which reads as follows:

“A six foot (6’) tall fence (type to be agreed upon by staff and the applicant) shall be constructed
along the west side of the public trail.”

In this case the existing six foot (6’) tall chain link fence was left as is and no opaque fencing has
been installed along the trail line. (See Exhibit 5 – Princeton Terrace Minutes)

CONCERNS
This reconsideration of conditions of approval was reviewed by Parks and Police. Both
departments felt that the original condition of approval was put in place based on CPTED
principles to monitor the trail. Police was expressly concerned with the construction of Princeton
Terrace as it would dramatically increase the number of people within close proximity to the trail
and felt that CPTED principles needed to be followed to keep those on the trail safe.

Planning staff is concerned that with the allowance for the change in Condition of Approval
number 16 will set a precedent for other subdivisions along the TRAX line resulting in a reduced
visibility along trails.

STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends denial of the request for the reconsideration of Condition 16 of the Pioneer
Crossing Subdivision, based upon the following findings:

FINDINGS:
   1. The chain-link fence (either black vinyl coated or non-coated) is consistent from 9000 S.
      to the north boundary line of Sandy City.
   2. The developer of this subdivision did want to install a taller opaque fence at the time of the
      subdivision review, however, the condition remained to keep it an open style fence.
   3. That the Parks and Recreation and Police Departments have expressed concern over solid
      fencing along this are in order to allow for natural surveillance on the Porter Rockwell
      Trail.
Pioneer Crossing Subdivision – MISC06042021-6064                    Page - 4 -


Planner:                              Reviewed by:


___________________________           ___________________________
Claire Hague                          Brian McCuistion
Planner                               Planning Director
Pioneer Crossing Subdivision – MISC06042021-6064          Page - 4 -




                      Exhibit #1- Application Materials
To whom it may concern:

My name is Kyle Borton. My family and I

 are trying to install a new opaque 8' fence along the east side of our property. We feel that this fence is
necessary to ensure our family's privacy and security. It has come to our attention that Sandy City plans
to add to the Porter Rockwell Trail. The section of land to be developed is directly connected to the
back of our yard and is approximately 16 feet from our bedrooms. Our back yard is very small, as
narrow as 12' in places. We would like to be able to block the view into our children's rooms. We are
also concerned that not being able to install an opaque and solid fence creates an undue liability to our
selves and potentially to Sandy City as well. Our concern is that with the added foot traffic from the
addition of the trail to this previously undeveloped land will attract undue attention. We are planing to
add a small and temporary pool in our back yard. With the fence being chain link it is 1st easy to see
into our yard and second, it would be easy for a child to climb over and access our pool. We also have a
dog, although the chain link is sufficient for keeping our dog in the yard it will not stop children from
putting their arms through the fence opening, putting them into harms way. It would make sense to
prevent any harmful situations from developing rather than dealing with the consequences later. I have
been told that the fence needs to be chain link so that the trail is visible however it would be impossible
for anyone other than our family to see the trail from the west side where our house is built. It runs
almost the complete length of our property from north to south. The fence being chain link only allows
for viability into our home and adds no value to the trail.
Thank you for your consideration.
-Kyle Borton
Pioneer Crossing Subdivision – MISC06042021-6064          Page - 5 -




                   Exhibit #2- Pioneer Crossing Minutes
Pioneer Crossing Subdivision – MISC06042021-6064          Page - 6 -




                    Exhibit #3- Comparable Subdivisions
Pioneer Crossing Subdivision – MISC06042021-6064                 Page - 7 -




           Exhibit #4- The Bungalows in Historic Sandy Minutes
Planning Commission Minutes
May 7, 2015
Page 7



4.     Bungalow in Historic Sandy, proposed 4-lot subdivision
       8475 South 115 East [Community #3 – Sandy Woods]                           SUB-3-15-4234

The applicant, Ty Vranes of VP Homes requested preliminary subdivision approval for a four lot
single family subdivision. The subdivision will remove the existing home on the property. Two
lots will be facing 115 East and two lots will be located in the back portion of the property. The
applicant is also requesting the RCO (Residential Conservation Overlay) which would apply to
the all lots fronting a public street.

The existing home on the property has a vague history. Sandy City has no official records of its
construction, previous owners, or general history. We know it was likely built sometime before
1950, however, the home has been remodeled several times resulting in the current home having
little resemblance to the original home. A site visit was made by Staff and the applicant where it
was determined that little to no historic value existed inside or outside of the home to warrant it
preservation.

The proposed project is bordered on all sides by the R-1-7.5(HS) zone. To the east of the
proposed subdivision is the UTA Lite Rail line. To the south is the Pioneer Crossing Subdivision
which is a 5-lot TND subdivision. The property is relatively flat with a small grade change going
from the high point on the east to a low point on the western end. Several mature trees exist on
the property. Many of these trees will be preserved where they don’t conflict with a proposed
home.

Planning Staff has the following concern regarding the proposed request:

1.     The building materials and articulation are important to the integrity of the RCO, if the
       overlay is approved. Each home should be distinguishable from the next and have its own
       unique look. This doesn’t mean the same building plans cannot be used, but that through
       building materials and articulations, each home will look different than the next. The
       same home plans should not be used on adjacent lots. The Planning Commission should
       carefully review the building elevations attached to this report in determining how to best
       accomplish this aesthetic.

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission determine that preliminary review is complete
for the Bungalows in Historic Sandy Subdivision, located at approximately 8475 South 115 East,
subject to the following conditions:

1.     That the applicant complies with each department’s comments and redlines throughout
       the Final Subdivision review process and that all issues be resolved before final approval
       is given.
2.     That the Planning Commission grants the use of the Residential Conservation Overlay
       Zone subject to the applicant meeting all requirements associated with that overlay.
Planning Commission Minutes
May 7, 2015
Page 8



3.     That all City provisions, codes and ordinances are adhered to including all provisions
       specific to the Residential Conservation Overlay.
4.     That no two adjacent homes under the overlay regulations have the same building
       elevation and that each home be articulated with different colors, architectural features
       and building materials, when compared to the adjacent home.
5.     That the following architectural elements be used in all homes that face public streets:
       a.      That a four foot brick wainscot extend around the front and sides of the home and
               that the brick be used as an accent material for other features of the home.
       b.      That any garage door facing a public street be enhanced with a carriage house
               type design with gridded windows at the top of the door.
       c.      That grids minimally be added to front and visible side windows.

Andrew King presented this item to the Planning Commission. He discussed the setbacks with
Commissioner Joe Baker.

Ty Vraines, 13708 Buckeye View Way, Riverton, stated that he has read the staff report and
does not have any questions.

Commissioner Joe Baker commented that the RCO zone requires certain features on the front of
the houses facing a public street. He asked if the homes in the back will have with the same
historic look.

Ty Vraines responded that they will comply with everything necessary including architectural
standards.

Acting Chairman Nancy Day opened this item to public comment.

Jerry Anderson, lives 2 doors north of this project. He stated that he has seen maps of this project
and he had questions regarding ingress and egress and water control.

Mr. King stated that the two lots will be accessed traditionally. The two lots in the back will have
a shared driveway for access.

Wendy Osborne, 12168 South 1780 West, Riverton, stated that she represents the property owner
to the north of this project. She stated that the owner is aware of this project and is in favor of it.
She stated that she will be listing his home and he believes this will increase his property value.

Acting Chairman Nancy Day closed this item to public comment.

Joe Baker moved that the Planning Commission determine that preliminary review is
complete for the Bungalows in Historic Sandy Subdivision, located at approximately 8475
South 115 East, subject to the 5 conditions outlined in the staff report.
Planning Commission Minutes
May 7, 2015
Page 9



Scott Sabey seconded the motion. The vote was as follows: Joe Baker, yes; Scott Sabey, yes;
Ron Mortimer, yes; Gayle Willardson, yes; Jared Clayton, yes; Nancy Day, yes. The vote was
unanimous in favor.


5.     Albion Village Way Partial Street Vacation
       Approx. 110 W. Albion Village Way [Civic Center, Community #2] MISC-3-15-4239

Mr. Kenny P. Nichols, Architect, of Think Architecture, representing Worker’s Compensation
Fund, property owner, requested Sandy City to consider vacating a second portion of Albion
Village Way, located at approximately 110 West Albion Village Way (Approximately 9750
South State Street) to allow the re-alignment and re-dedication of the western portion of Albion
Village Way, in a future subdivision amendment action. Albion Village Way was originally
dedicated as a public street through a subdivision plat, the Albion Subdivision, which was
recorded in December, 2010. The current street alignment was fixed by that plat, connecting the
stub end of Albion Village Way, as developed in the residential condominium project to the west
and the partial intersection located on State Street. However, this portion of Albion Village Way
has never been physically constructed. This action is requested to accommodate the necessary
southern shift in the Albion Village Way right of way alignment, as reflected in the approved site
plan for the Towne Ridge Parkway Mixed Use Project master development plan. Albion Village
Way will still eventually connect between its current stub ended location to the west in the
Albion Village residential development and State Street to the east. Existing zoning on both
sides of the subject street is Central Business District, CBD. Existing zoning to the west of this
portion of Albion Village Way is Mixed Use (MU).

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission recommend to the City Council that the partial
Street Vacation of the western portion of Albion Village Way be approved as requested, based
upon the following findings and subject to the following conditions of approval:

Findings:
1.     The applicant, WCF owns approximately 95% of the property abutting this portion of the
       street being requested for vacation. The HOA owns approximately 5% of the property
       abutting this portion of the street being requested for vacation, and has consented to the
       vacation and realignment.
2.     That good cause exists for the requested vacation action, in that it will allow a better
       street alignment that will accommodate the enlarged site for the Towne Ridge Parkway
       Mixed Use Project, as previously approved.
3.     That there is neither material injury to either the public interest or any person by the
       requested vacation. The street will still be connected and the majority of the street has
       not been constructed, so there will be little material loss of existing street infrastructure.
4.     The realigned street will work better for the applicant, HOA and the public in the
       proposed replacement configuration.
Pioneer Crossing Subdivision – MISC06042021-6064           Page - 8 -




                  Exhibit #5 – Princeton Terrace Minutes
Planning Commission                                         Meeting Minutes                                            May 7, 2020



7.         SPR-07-19-5 Princeton Terrace - Mixed Use Development - Mix Use Zone (MU)
           689_2nd     (Preliminary Site Plan Review)
                       8377 S. 115 E.
                       [Community #3 - Sandy Woods]
                   Attachments:   Staff Report.pdf
                                  Vicinity_Map.pdf
                                  8.7.19 Neighborhood Meeting Summary.pdf
                                  PC - Plan Submittal Complete.pdf
                                  Architectural Site Plan.pdf
                                  Civil Site Plan.pdf
                                  Grading Plan.pdf
                                  Color Elev Type A.pdf
                                  TOWNHOME TYPE A.pdf
                                  TOWNHOME TYPE B.pdf
                                  Landscape Plan.pdf
                                  Landscape - Tree Overall.pdf
                                  Landscape - Shrub Overall.pdf
                                  Landscape - Shrub Detail - A.pdf
                                  Landscape - Shrub Detail - B.pdf
                                  Landscape - Shrub Detail - C.pdf
                                  Site Detail 4-24-20.pdf
                                  Conceptual PC Review Set.pdf

                                  Mike Wilcox presented this item to the Planning Commission

                                  Mike Wilcox read in public comment emails into the record.

                                  Carrie Howlett wanted a fence along the north side separating East Town Village from this
                                  proposed development.

                                  Michael Christopherson read in public comment emails into the record.

                                  Gerry Tully further presented this item to the Planning Commission.

                                  Mike Wilcox explained staff concerns.

                                  Gerry Tully addressed staff concerns.

                                  Jamie Tsandes asked why the existing trees would be wiped out.

                                  Gerry Tully explained that he wants to go through with an arborist and see what trees can
                                  be saved.

                                  Michael Christopherson opened this item to public comment.



Sandy City, Utah                                                  Page 16                                          Printed on 5/22/2020
Planning Commission                               Meeting Minutes                                                May 7, 2020

                      Lori Robison is concerned about traffic and lack of parking.

                      David Haralson in favor of the item and would like to see a Porter Rockwell extension
                      completed with the development.

                      Rodolfo Maligon is concerned because the existing fence (behind single-family homes on
                      115 E.) is mostly fallen apart, missing, and mostly open and has concerns about safety.
                      The impact of the development requires a new fence to mitigate impact of safety and
                      security.

                      Mindy Ballenger wanted clarification that the East Town Village HOA and clubhouse
                      would not be shared with new the development and has concerns about parking and lack
                      of enforcement.

                      Michael Christopherson closed this item into public comment.

                      Mike Wilcox responded to public comments about parking and the proposed extension to
                      the trail and crime prevention.

                      Michael Christopherson asked for clarification that the HOA and clubhouse are separate
                      from the East Town Village.

                      Mike Wilcox explained a little of the history with the development and clarified that they
                      are not part of the East Town Village HOA.

                      Jamie Tsandes suggested that a chain-link or open style fence along the west side of the
                      proposed trail.

                      Dave Bromley agreed with leaving the existing fence on the east and a chain linked fence
                      would provide the most security along the west property lines near the proposed public
                      trail.

                      Daniel Schoenfeld agreed with leaving the fence alongside the east properties.

                      Jeff Lovell agreed with the applicant that a solid fence would attract graffiti along the trax
                      and along the trail.

                      Monica Collard was ok with the proposed conditions but didn't want to see it back for
                      Final and asked about condition eight and nine.

                      Daniel Schoenfeld said that he thought it would be okay to approve that they work out the
                      amenities with staff and come back for the final architecture.

                      Dave Bromley agreed with Mike Wilcox comments and would like to see more varied
                      colors in the development. Dave would like to see it back for Final Review but is open to
                      letting staff and applicant work it out as well.

                      Michael Christopherson clarified architecture differences and feels that if the developer
                      and staff cannot agree then they come back for a final approval.

                      Jamie Tsandes asked for clarification between condition between eight and nine.

                      Michael Christopherson clarified the conditions.


Sandy City, Utah                                       Page 17                                              Printed on 5/22/2020
Planning Commission                                    Meeting Minutes                                               May 7, 2020




                             A motion was made by Dave Bromley, seconded by Jeff Lovell that the Planning
                             Commission find that the preliminary site plan review is complete for the
                             proposed Princeton Terrace Mixed Use Site Plan, located at approximately 8377
                             South 115 East, based upon the first six conditions and condition 7 be modified as
                             follows:

                             7. That the architectural plans for all three (3) building types be required to be
                             approved by staff before Final Approval. If resolution between staff and the
                             applicant is not achieved, then the applicant may return to the Planning
                             Commission for Final Approval.

                             And include an additional condition as follows:

                             8. A six foot (6’) tall fence (type to be agreed upon by staff and the applicant)
                             shall be constructed along the west side of the public trail.

                      Yes:   7-    Dave Bromley
                                   Monica Collard
                                   Jamie Tsandes
                                   Michael Christopherson
                                   Jeff Lovell
                                   Cameron Duncan
                                   Daniel Schoenfeld

                   Absent:   1-    Ron Mortimer




Sandy City, Utah                                            Page 18                                              Printed on 5/22/2020
Planning Commission                                          Meeting Minutes                                            May 7, 2020



8.         SUB-10-19-5 Princeton Terrace Subdivision (Preliminary Review)
           740         8377 S. 115 E.
                       [Community #3 - Sandy Woods]
                   Attachments:   Staff Report.pdf
                                  Vicinity_Map.pdf
                                  8.7.19 Neighborhood Meeting Summary.pdf
                                  Preliminary Plat.pdf

                                  Mike Wilcox presented this item to the Planning Commission.

                                  Gerry Tully further presented this item to the Planning Commission.

                                  Michael Christopherson opened this item to public comment.

                                  Rodolfo Maligon has asked if they can put in slats on the chain linked fence to provide
                                  privacy to their homes and would like to see the trees remain.

                                  Michael Christopherson closed this item to public comment.

                                  Dave Bromley asked about condition number eight.

                                  Mike Wilcox clarified condition eight.


                                  A motion was made by Monica Collard, seconded by Dave Bromley that the
                                  Planning Commission find that the preliminary subdivision review is complete for
                                  the proposed Princeton Terrace Subdivision, located at approximately 8377
                                  South 115 East, based upon the eight conditions outlined in the staff report.

                          Yes:    7-    Dave Bromley
                                        Monica Collard
                                        Jamie Tsandes
                                        Michael Christopherson
                                        Jeff Lovell
                                        Cameron Duncan
                                        Daniel Schoenfeld

                       Absent:    1-    Ron Mortimer

Administrative Business

1.         20-134                 PC Meeting Minutes for 03.05.2020

                   Attachments:   PC Minutes 03.05.2020 (DRAFT)

                                  This item was tabled.


2.         20-137                 PC Test Meeting Minutes 04.02.2020

                   Attachments:   TEST PC Minutes 04.02.2020 (DRAFT)

                                  This item was tabled.

Sandy City, Utah                                                  Page 19                                           Printed on 5/22/2020
Planning Commission                                       Meeting Minutes                     May 7, 2020



3.         20-138                 PC Test Meeting Minutes for 04.16.2020

                   Attachments:   TEST PC Minutes 04.16.2020 (DRAFT)

                                  This item was tabled.

4. Sandy City Development Report

5. Director's Report

Adjournment
                                  A unanimous vote was taken to adjourn.

Meeting Procedure
1. Staff Introduction
2. Developer/Project Applicant presentation
3. Staff Presentation
4. Open Public Comment (if item has been noticed to the public)
5. Close Public Comment
6. Planning Commission Deliberation
7. Planning Commission Motion

In order to be considerate of everyone attending the meeting and to more closely follow the
published agenda times, public comments will be limited to 2 minutes per person per item. A
spokesperson who has been asked by a group to summarize their concerns will be allowed 5
minutes to speak. Comments which cannot be made within these time limits should be submitted
in writing to the Community Development Department prior to noon the day
before the scheduled meeting.

Planning Commission applications may be tabled if: 1) Additional information is needed in order
to take action on the item; OR 2) The Planning Commission feels there are unresolved issues that
may need further attention before the Commission is ready to make a motion. No agenda item
will begin after 11 pm without a unanimous vote of the Commission. The Commission may carry
over agenda items, scheduled late in the evening and not heard, to the next regular scheduled
meeting.

In compliance with the Americans With Disabilities Act, reasonable accommodations for
individuals with disabilities will be provided upon request. For assistance, or if you have any
questions regarding the Planning Commission Agenda or any of the items, please call the Sandy
City Planning Department at (801) 568-7256.




Sandy City, Utah                                              Page 20                     Printed on 5/22/2020
Pioneer Crossing Subdivision – MISC06042021-6064      Page - 9 -




                          Exhibit #6 – Vicinity Map
                                               8411                                             162
                               8420
                                            8421                                            8421       I    172



                                            8431                                                  8429
                              8430

                              8440                                                               8439
                                            8441

                                                                                                8449 8452
            8445               8452         8451
            8453                                                                                8459     8458
Solar Way




                               8464




                                                                                     150 E
            8461                            8461                                                  8465
            8471
                          8472 8472               8473
            8479                                               8469        8467
                          8472 8474                                                              163     173
            8487          8476                    8477
                                                                                     Subject
                                                                                     Property
                               115 E




                                                              141        143
                                                                                                       168



                                                123                        149
            87     95   103                             129     135
                                                                                                      175
                              109

        Pionee r Ave
                                                                         Center St




                                        8543            134                                            174
                 8546                                               134
                                                                                         160 E
                   100 E




                                                         136
                 8540                             138
       8550                        8553
                                                                 8558
                                                                                                       8555

                                                                               MISC-06-04-6064
                                                                           Subdivision Appeal
                                                                         143 E. Pioneer Avenue
                                                                  Feet               PRODUCED BY BRYNN BOHLENDER
                          0   25   50     100     150   200     250         THE COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT
