                                   MEMORANDUM
                                             August 19, 2021


 To:      City Council via Planning Commission
 From:    Community Development Department
 Subject: Creek Road West Annexation                                              ANEX06082021-
          Approximately 1834 East Creek Road going west to Union                  6067
          Park Avenue                                                             Approximately 5.6
          [High Point – Community #6 and Community #15]                           acres


HEARING NOTICE: This item has been noticed to property owners within 500 feet of the subject
area in addition to being posted along Creek Road in the area of the proposed annexation.

BACKGROUND
Sandy City is requesting to annex a certain contiguous unincorporated area, totaling approximately 5.6
acres, located at approximately 1834 East Creek Road going west to Union Park Avenue in Salt Lake
County, Utah. The area under consideration for annexation is the south half right-of-way width of
Creek Road (see vicinity map).

Currently, the south half of Creek Road falls under the jurisdiction of Salt Lake County. The northern half
is within the Cottonwood Heights jurisdiction. There is an area where Cottonwood Heights annexed a
small area (including the road right-of-way) south of Creek Road in 2014. There have been recent
discussions with Sandy and Salt Lake County Public Works regarding the annexation of the south half of
Creek Road in order to clear up confusion and inefficiencies. Staff does have a letter of support from the
Salt Lake County Public Works and Municipal Services Director, Scott Baird (see attached). There were
multiple attempts to reach out to property owners in the 7450 S. cul-de-sac. However, there was only one
owner that expressed an interest in annexing into Sandy City. Therefore, this area is not included in this
particular annexation request.

Sandy City borders the subject area to the south.

ANALYSIS
The annexation is being considered by the City for the following reasons:
1.     The City is considering annexing the area pursuant to 10-2-418 Utah Code Annotated.
2.     The area is contiguous to the Sandy City boundary (south side).
3.     The property is located within an area designated in the Sandy City General Plan for incorporation.
Page 2                                              Creek Road West Annexation ANEX06082021-6067

4.     The City already provides a high level of municipal services to the properties adjacent to this
proposed annexation area.

General Plan
Portions of the Sandy City General Plan which relate to this application are as follows:

p.43  Recognize that economics alone is not sufficient reason to alter established neighborhoods.
Human and environmental impacts also should be recognized.


STAFF RECOMMENDATION

It is recommended that the Planning Commission send a positive recommendation to the City Council that
the Creek Road West Annexation be approved based upon the following findings:

1.      The area is contiguous to the Sandy City boundary (south side).
2.      The property is located within an area designated in the Sandy City General Plan for
incorporation.
3.      The City already provides a high level of municipal services to the properties adjacent to this
proposed annexation area.


Planner:                                                Reviewed by:



Brian McCuistion                                        James Sorensen
Planning Director                                       Community Development Director


Legal Review:



Darien Alcorn
City Attorney



Creek Road West Annexation

 Property Owner                              Sidwell Number            Market Value (2020)     Acres


 Salt Lake County                            NA                        NA                      5.6
