                             MEMORANDUM
                                       May 20, 2021


 To:         Planning Commission
 From:       Community Development Department
 Subject:    Comcast Corp – Amend Standards to the RD Zone                CODE-04-21-6025
             Amend Title 21, Chapter 23, “Commercial, Office,
             Industrial, and Transit Corridor Development
             Standards” of the Sandy Municipal Code


HEARING NOTICE: This item has been noticed on public websites, and in the newspaper at least
                10 days prior to the Public Hearing.



                                                 REQUEST
                                                 Greg Allshouse, representing Comcast
                                                 Corporation, has applied for a code
                                                 amendment to the development standards for
                                                 specific commercial zones, in particular the
                                                 Research and Development (RD) Zoning
                                                 District. The proposal would amend section
                                                 21-23-21(o) of the Commercial, Office,
                                                 Industrial, and Transit Corridor Development
                                                 Standards of the Sandy Municipal Code. The
                                                 RD Zone is currently only in one area of the
                                                 City (see zoning map). It is located along the
                                                 freeway frontage road of 300 West, bounded
                                                 by 1-15 on the east, Front Runner rails on the
                                                 west, 9400 South to the north, and Sego Lily
                                                 Drive on the south. The proposed code
                                                 amendment would allow for Comcast to alter,
                                                 expand, and centralize their operations into
                                                 this existing location. (see the attached
                                                 applicant’s letter).
Comcast Corp – Amend Standards to the RD Zone – CODE-04-21-6025                           Page - 2 -


BACKGROUND
In 1981, the RD Zone was established and applied to an undeveloped area located at approximately
1000 East and 9000 South. In 2000, the RD Zone was changed in anticipation of applying this zone to
the current area zoned RD (see zoning map). At the same time, this area was rezoned from the
Industrial (ID) Zone to RD. This area was viewed as an essential appendage of the City’s Civic Center
Master Plan, and the rezone dubbed this area “Civic Center West”. The ID Zone and associated uses
were not viewed as compatible with the City’s vision for the area. The City created a Research and
Development Zone to help realize that vision and prohibit the area from developing with industrial
uses. The following are the purpose statements of the RD Zone:

Section 21-4-11(16)

Research and Development District (RD).

a.     This district is established to provide locations for commerce, service, research and
       employment activities. Such locations and site improvements shall project a desirable
       appearance toward public streets and maintain compatibility with adjacent land uses.

b.     Except for limited accessory and ancillary uses, and planned developments for areas east
       of Interstate 15, the RD District provides for employment locations which are
       characterized by office and compatible research, corporate headquarters, and campus-
       like development with substantial visual amenities which can function in areas close to
       residential areas as well as other similar uses within the RD District.

Most of the undeveloped farmland that existed in 2000 has since developed into office buildings, a
college campus, and corporate headquarters. There are a few properties that don’t face the freeway
frontage road that have yet to develop or redevelop under the RD Zone. The existing Comcast
Corporate Building is located at 9602 South 300 West. The building is oriented towards the street
with an expansive parking lot surrounding it.

The City recently approved a code amendment within this zone district to expand the allowable uses
to include Heavy Commercial, which is typically only allowed with the Industrial (ID) Zone. The City
approved of this type of use so long as the property containing that use does not have frontage onto
300 West. The intent was to maintain the properties that front onto the freeway frontage road (300
West) as office buildings and corporate headquarters.

ANALYSIS
The Planning Commission must review the following criteria when considering a requested Code
Amendment:

Is the change reasonably necessary?
Is it in the public interest?
Is it in harmony with the objectives and purposes of the future development of Sandy City?
Is the change consistent with the General Plan?

The applicant’s request expresses how they view the requested code amendment meets these
criteria. Staff believes that the intent of the proposed amendment meets the criteria mentioned
above.

This RD zone has proved to be beneficial to the City as it encouraged several employment centers,
research facilities, and corporate headquarters. Most of the land within this zone has been developed
Comcast Corp – Amend Standards to the RD Zone – CODE-04-21-6025                                    Page - 3 -


with just a few parcels that have not yet developed fully or have not redeveloped since the ID Zone
was initially established for the area.

The Comcast Office building has historically only been used for office space. Over the past several
years, other ancillary uses have been introduced, some with City Approval and others without.
Comcast would like to consolidate several other locations throughout Salt Lake County and operate
them from this location. They are requesting accommodation through this code amendment to make
that possible. In reviewing the applicant’s letter, staff has prepared a draft that would incorporate
the requested items. These proposed changes are shown in the attached Exhibit “A.” Staff has
summarized and accommodated their request by allowing the Planning Commission to approve
specific ancillary uses that are subordinate to the primary use of the site to include warehouse, heavy
commercial, and light industrial. The City defines “ancillary use” as follows:

      Ancillary use means a use conducted on the same lot as the primary use of the structure to which it is
      related; a use which is clearly incidental to and customarily found in connection with such primary use.


This would allow for Comcast to amend and expand the usage of this site, while preserving the intent
and primary uses of the zone to remain unchanged.


NON-CONFORMING USES
This Code Amendment would not
create any non-conforming use
situations.

LAND DEVELOPMENT CODE
PURPOSE COMPLIANCE
The Sandy City Land Development
Code in 21-1-3 lists the criteria
explaining the intent and purpose
of the Ordinance. The purpose is:

Sec. 21-1-3. - Purpose and Scope.

(a)      Purpose. The ordinance from
       which this title is derived is
       adopted to implement the
       Sandy City's General Plan and
       to promote public health, safety,
       convenience, aesthetics, and
       welfare; efficient use of land;
       sustainable land use and
       building                 practices;
       transportation options and
       accessibility; crime prevention;
       timely citizen involvement in
       land use decision making; and
       efficiency      in   development
       review       and      land     use
       administration. Specifically, this
       title is established to promote the following purposes:
       (1)   General.
Comcast Corp – Amend Standards to the RD Zone – CODE-04-21-6025                                     Page - 4 -


            a.   To facilitate the orderly growth and development of Sandy City.
            b.   To facilitate adequate provision for transportation, water, sewage, schools, parks, and other
                 public requirements.
            c.   To stabilize property values.
            d.   To enhance the economic well-being of Sandy City and its inhabitants.
     (2)     Implementation of General Plan. To coordinate and ensure the implementation of the City's
            General Plan through effective execution of development review requirements, adequate facility
            and services review and other goals, policies, or programs contained in the General Plan.
     (3)     Comprehensive, Consistent and Equitable Regulations. To establish a system of fair,
            comprehensive, consistent and equitable regulations, standards and procedures for review and
            approval of all proposed land development within the City.
     (4)     Efficiently and Effectively Managed Procedures.
            a.   To promote fair procedures that are efficient and effective in terms of time and expense.
            b.   To be effective and responsive in terms of the allocation of authority and delegation of powers
                 and duties among ministerial, appointed, and elected officials.
            c.   To foster a positive customer service attitude and to respect the rights of all applicants and
                 affected citizens.


GENERAL PLAN COMPLIANCE
The General Plan encourages appropriate development standards for all uses and zoning categories
within Sandy City. This code amendment would further that goal and objective. The proposed Code
Amendment will facilitate the orderly growth and development of Sandy City. These regulations
would help promote the health, safety, and welfare of our residents.

STAFF RECOMMENDATIONS
The Community Development Department requests that the Planning Commission forward a positive
recommendation to the City Council to adopt the proposed ordinance amendment as shown in
Exhibit “A”, attached, for the following reasons:

1.         The proposal complies with the Purpose of the Land Development Code as stated in section
           21-1-03.

2.         Compliance with the Goals and Policies of the General Plan by establishing appropriate
           development standards for all uses and zoning categories within Sandy City.

Planner:




Mike Wilcox
Zoning Administrator

File Name: S:\USERS\PLN\STAFFRPT\2021\CODE-04-21-6025 COMCAST SANDY\STAFF REPORT.DOCX
