                                   MEMORANDUM
                                           November 18, 2021


 To:            Planning Commission
 From:          Community Development Department
 Subject:       The Ridges at Dimple Dell - Mixed Use Development                 SPR08032021-006125
                (Preliminary Site Plan)                                                    MU, SAO Zone
                1405 East 10600 South                                                6.04 Acres - 49 units
                [Community #22]                                                   2,740 sq ft office/retail


NOTICE: This item has been noticed to property owners within 500 feet of the subject area, posted on the
        property, and on the City and Utah Public Notice websites.


                                     PROPERTY CASE HISTORY
  Case Number                                           Case Summary
 R#03-13               The Garbett Rezone changed the zone of this subject property and the lands
                       that have been developed to the east, totaling 14.76 acres. The zone changed
                       from Professional Office (PO) to Mixed Use (MU). This was approved in
                       May of 2004.
 SPR#04-31             Previous Master Plan and site plan approval for the Village at Dimple Dell
                       project. It consisted of a mixture of townhomes, apartments/condos, retail, and
                       office space. The Planning Commission granted preliminary approval on May
                       19, 2005. This included a total of 173 residential units and 52,580 sq. ft. of
                       (commercial office/retail). This development was split into 2 phases. Only
                       Phase 1 proceeded to Final approval and built 70 townhomes. The second
                       phase was never constructed.
 S#06-18               A plat was recorded for phase 1 of the Village at Dimple Dell development
                       that created 70 units.

REQUEST
Brad Reynolds Construction has submitted an application for a preliminary site plan and mixed
use master plan review of a proposed development known as the Ridges at Dimple Dell. The
proposal includes the undeveloped part of the mixed-use master planned development known
as the Village at Dimple Dell. This phase does not follow that original development masterplan
in terms of scale and mix of uses. It is consistent with the first phase of development in terms of
The Ridges at Dimple Dell – Mixed Use Review - SPR08032021-006125                       Page - 2 -


scale and density. This phase is to be built on approximately 6.04 acres consisting of 49
townhome units (~8 units/acre) and a commercial building (2,740 of office/retail).

BACKGROUND
The proposed project is zoned Mixed Use (MU) and is also subject to the Sensitive Area Overlay
(SAO) zone. It is borded by the Village at Dimple Dell townhome project to the east (also zoned
MU). To the west is the Lone Peak Market and Canyon View Cleaners (zoned Community
Commercial (CC)). On the south side of the project are residential homes in the Bell Canyon Acres
subdivision (zoned SD(R-1-30A)). To the north, the property is borded by the Dimple Dell
Regional Park (zoned SD(OS)).

NOTICE
Notices were mailed to property owners within a 500-foot radius of the subject parcel to notify
them of the Planning Commission meeting. The city also held a neighborhood meeting on August
18, 2021. There were several questions and concerns raised during the meeting. A full report
from the meeting is attached to this report.

ANALYSIS
Overview:
The applicant is proposing a significant change to the previously approved mixed use master
plan for this area. This plan features much less commercial space, no stacked residential units,
and different amenities (see the proposed mixed use master plan). The property owner to the
west was an active participant in the previous plan and has not been cooperative in the design
process of the current plan. While there is still proposed to be a single vehicular cross access
point and a pedestrian path connection, it is much more disconnected than the previous plan.
That said, the plan is in better scale to the area and ulimately meets the requirements of the
Mixed Use Zone.

Important design issues or considerations on this proposed development in the Mixed Use Zone
that will need to be reviewed by the Planning Commission include: streets, pedestrian ways,
streetscape design, concealment of parking lots and structures, pedestrian scale design, open
space, architectural design and materials, massing, building orientation to the street, pedestrian
connections, appropriate mix in types of residential units.

This development of forty-nine (49) residential units is proposed to be built out as a single
development in regards to the infrastructure. Individual buildings will be built out over time, and
landscaping improvements will be completed as they complete construction in an area. There
are four (4) building types of townhome units being proposed, three (3) front loaded styles and
one (1) rear loaded. These rear loaded units are oriented to 10600 South, private internal streets
or pedestrian streets (mews) and are serviced with a series of alleys for vehicular access. The
units on the north and west end of the development are front loaded units that face onto a private
street system. The proposal is generally in a similar scale and density as that of the adjacent
development to the east.

The development also has a small commercial component (2,740 sq ft) on the southwest corner
adjacent to the Canyon View Cleaners building. The applicant is proposing an office/retail use to
occupy this building. It is designed to accommodate multiple users or a single tenant.
The Ridges at Dimple Dell – Mixed Use Review - SPR08032021-006125                         Page - 3 -


Access:
Primary access for the development comes from 10600 South Street (public) and connects to an
existing private road network established with the Village at Dimple Dell development to the
east. This proposed development would extend Chataeau Ridge Way to the west, until it becomes
Bay Meadow Drive along the west side of the development. The applicant will further improve
Canyon Villa Drive that was built in previous phases of development, however the side
treatments of that street has not yet been installed (including sidewalks, parkstrips, benches,
etc). Those would be installed and further ehnanced with this development. A new pedestrian
street would be installed in the middle of the development (Rustic Wood Court) and serves as a
central open space to the development.

Parking:
The commercial building will require fourteen (14) parking stalls that are proposed both on-
street (10), and within a parking lot on the north side of the building (4). That parking lot will be
shared with the residential units. An extra stalls is shown in that parking lot area that can serve
both residential and commercial needs. The commercial parking can also serve as an overflow
of any parking needs for the units during non-business hours.

Each residential unit will have a 2-car attached garage. Fifteen (15) units will have a full driveway
infront of the unit, which will accommodate two (2) guest parking spaces for that unit. The
remaining thrity-four (34) units will share eight (8) on-street parking spaces on Chateau Ridge
Way and five (5) off-street parking stalls in a parking lot on the west end. This satisfies the
required parking for the residential units.

Architectural Design & Materials:
All buildings will feature masonry and fiber cement siding as primary building materials. There
are four (4) building types of townhome units being proposed, three (3) front loaded styles and
one (1) rear loaded. They all adhere to the standards of the MU Zone and the Architectural Design
Standards.

Building Setbacks & Height:
The Mixed Use Zone requires buildings to be built up to the street and that primary building
entrances be oriented to the street or pedestrian mew. Building facades must make up a
minimum of 70% of the street frontage, except for pedestrian plazas, or open space. The proposal
meets this criteria with their proposed urban street design with a few modifications to the
commercial buiding. The applicant intends to meet the Suburban Commercial profile of the
Storefront Conservation Overlay zone. All building heights are proposed to be below thirty-five
feet (35’) to the peak of the roofs from finished grade.

Landscaping & Open Space
The applicant has submitted a full landscape plan for the site. Staff has found that it generally
meets the requirements specific to the Mixed Use Zone and those of Chapter 21-25 entitled
Landscaping Standards. The plans reflect a variety of deciduous and coniferous trees, shrubs,
seed mixes, and perennial flowers. They are proposing formal street tree plantings along the
streets (e.g. placed thirty feet (30’) on center in an eight-foot (8’) parkstrip). Approximately 40%
of the site is in landscaping.
The Ridges at Dimple Dell – Mixed Use Review - SPR08032021-006125                      Page - 4 -


This plan shows urban amenities such as street furniture in the open space areas and along
pedestrian mews. A few more should be added along the public street frontage and the plans
should include trash receptacles and bike racks. These amenities are beneficial to the project
design and enhance the pedestrian experience. There are two (2) distinct open spaces in the
project. There is an open space in the northwestern corner of the site along the Dimple Dell Park
that has a pavilion, picnic table, and walking paths. The other is located centrally as wide
pedestrian mew that has a playground area at the center. The developer is also rebuilding the
sidewalk along the 10600 South frontage to comply with the trails master plan for a
multipurpose public trail (10’ wide). These amenities are not intended to be shared with the
adjancent development.

CONCERNS
Staff has the following concerns regarding this proposal as submitted by the applicant:

   1. Shared Access and Maintenance. A shared access easement with the Villages at Dimple
      Dell HOA will need to be obtained to allow for cross access on these private roads as well
      as shared maintenance of Canyon Villa Drive. Similar cross access agreements with the
      commercial property to the west need to be obtained where these parking lots connect.
      There needs to be connectivity between the projects to achieve the intent of the MU Zone
      to create walkable village atmosphere.
   2. Fencing. While fencing is discouraged in the MU Zone and the preferred method of
      separation of uses is landscape, the applicant is proposing an eight-foot (8’) pre-cast
      masonry wall along the western edge of the property behind the units. That will need to
      be expressly approved by the Planning Commission.

STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission approve the Ridges at Dimple Dell Mixed Use
Site and Master Plan, located at approximately 1405 East 10600 South, based upon the following
finding and conditions:

Finding:

   1. That the development proposal complies with the intent and purpose of the Mixed Use
      Zone.

Conditions:

   1. That the applicant complies with each department’s comments and redlines throughout
      the preliminary and final review process and that all issues be resolved before final site
      plan approval.

   2. That all City provisions, codes and ordinances are adhered to during the review,
      construction and operations process of this building.

   3. All utility boxes (i.e. transformers, switch gear, telephone, cable tv, etc.) shall be shown
      on the site plan and shall be placed underground or moved behind the front setback of
      the buildings and screened from view. Each box shall be shown in its exact location and
      shall be noted with its exact height, width and length. Building utility meters shall be
The Ridges at Dimple Dell – Mixed Use Review - SPR08032021-006125                                  Page - 5 -


        mounted to the side or rear elevation or screened with a wing wall if fronting a public
        street.

    4. That the developer be responsible for the placement of a temporary 6-foot-high chain
       link fence around the perimeter of the project during the construction phase of the
       project for security. Said fence shall also be required to include fabric to prohibit blowing
       dust problems if it becomes necessary or if it is required by the Community Development
       Department during Site Plan Review.

    5. Shared access easement and maintenance agreement with the Villages at Dimple Dell will
       need to be obtained and recorded to prior to final staff approval.

    6. That an eight-foot (8’) precast concrete fence be allowed along the west property lines
       adjacent to the new residential units that abut the commercial property on the west. That
       any internal fencing be addressed with Staff during Final Site plan and Subdivision
       review.

    7. That the commercial building follow the Suburban Commercial building placement and
       street frontage profile as described in the Storefront Conservation Overlay zone.

    8. That the conditions of approval for the Village at Dimple Dell (SPR#04-31) be formally
       amended at a future Planning Commission meeting to remove the requirement of the
       installation or a bond for the completion of a pool and clubhouse as part of any
       development on this property.



Planner:




Mike Wilcox
Zoning Administrator

File Name: S:\USERS\PLN\STAFFRPT\2021\SPR08032021-006125_RIDGES AT DIMPLE DELL\STAFF REPORT.DOCX
