SANDY CITY COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT

JAMES SORENSEN
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR

KURT BRADBURN
MAYOR

MATTHEW HUISH
CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER

MEMORANDUM

December 17, 2020

To:        Planning Commission
From:      Community Development Department
Subject:   Planning Commission review of CUP# 07-18-5462,            CUP-7-18-5462
           Conditional Use Permit for the 7-Eleven store, granting   Zoned CvC
           7 day a week, 24 hour a day business operation within
           250 feet of a residential zone
           711 West 9000 South Street
           [Civic Center, Community #2]

HEARING NOTICE: This item has been noticed to property owners within 500 feet of the subject
                property.

PROPERTY CASE HISTORY
Case Number      Case Summary
CUP-7-18-5462    On October 18, 2018 the Planning Commission approved CUP for
                 Convenience Store with gasoline sales with 24/7 extended operating
                 hours located within 250 feet of a residential use or zoning.  Planning
                 Commission granted the CUP for the use but restricted the hours to
                 6:00 am to midnight, seven days a week.
SPR-7-18-5461    On October 18, 2018 the Planning Commission determined that
                 preliminary review was complete for the 7-11 site plan.  After staff
                 review, the Final Site Plans were finalized on July 10, 2019
CUP-7-18-5462    On March 21, 2019 the Planning Commission reviewed a request to
                 approve 24/7 hours of operation.  This was approved by the Planning
                 Commission.


DESCRIPTION OF REQUEST
Mrs. Jen Archuleta (Applicant) has submitted a request for the Planning Commission to consider
a potential modification to the previously approved Conditional Use Permit for the 7-Eleven
convenience store located at 711 W. 9000 S. (see attached Exhibit #1 - Application Materials).
The purpose of this hearing will be for the Planning Commission to receive new information and
make a determination on this request pursuant to Title 21-33-6 of the Sandy City Code.

10000 Centennial Parkway | Sandy, Utah 84070 | p: 801.568.7250 | f: 801.568.7278 | sandy.utah.gov

---

Page 2                                            Modification of CUP-7-18-5462

Exhibit #1 includes pictures and videos (videos will be attached to the materials on the
legistar website for this meeting) demonstrating the impact of lighting on adjacent homes
from the commercial operation. Exhibit #1 also includes pictures and complaints of noise
associated with deliveries and garbage pick-up, some happening outside of approved
times (7:00 am to 9:00 pm).  The applicant is requesting that the Planning Commission
revoke the 24 hour a day operation. Typical hours of operation for a commercial use
within 250 feet of a residential zone is 6:00 am to 10:00 pm.

Sandy City staff has reviewed the request and understands it to be based on impacts experienced
by the owner of a neighboring property, including excessive light trespass and noise impact to
the abutting homes and residents from the 7 day a week, 24 hour a day business operation
occurring within 250 feet of a residential zone.

It was determined by City staff that new engineering data will be needed to comprehensively
evaluate the light and noise impacts of the 7 days a week, 24 hour a day business operation
within 250 feet of a residential zone, based upon the existing constructed site and building
facilities. In order to do that, Sandy City hired an independent third-party engineering firm (BNA
Consultants) to assess and evaluate the current light and noise impacts being experienced by the
residential neighbors during the extended hours of operation.

The consultants requested, and were given, the following section 21-23-11 – Lighting in order to
understand what the City Code standards are for commercial development.

21-23-11     Lighting.

(a) Spotlights.  Reflectors, spotlights, floodlights and other sources of illumination may be used
to illuminate buildings, landscaping, signs, parking, and loading areas provided they are
equipped with proper lenses or other devices concentrating the illumination upon the building,
landscaping, signs, parking, and loading areas.

(b) Light Spill.  No unshielded lights, reflectors, spotlights, strobe lights, or search lights shall be
so located that they are pointed towards or are directly visible from public rights-of-way.  All
lighting shall be shielded and directed downward to avoid light spill beyond the property line.
Unshielded, exterior wall mounted floodlights (wall packs) are prohibited.  Intensities shall be
controlled so that neighboring areas will not be adversely affected by glare or excessive light.

(c ) Appropriate Lighting.  Pole mounted fixtures are required for parking lot lighting.
Lighting of pedestrian pathways is also required.  Lighting of buildings and site identification
signs are permitted.

---

Page 3                                            Modification of CUP-7-18-5462

(d) Site Drawings.  Design and location of standards and fixtures shall be specified on the
    site development drawings. The use of "color corrected" high pressure sodium (white
    light) light fixtures is strongly encouraged.

The engineering firm has submitted the results of their study, which does include some
recommendations on ways to lessen the impact of the noise and lighting (see attached Exhibit #2
- Photometric and Noise Analyses).


BACKGROUND
On October 18, 2018, the Planning Commission did review two conditional uses (gasoline sales
and extended hours of operation) associated with the 7-Eleven retail convenience store.  The
Planning Commission approved extended hours, with limitations on the hours of operation being
from 6:00 A.M. to Midnight.  The Planning Commission also approved the gas sales, which is
not part of the modification request. The following six conditions were approved:
1. That the applicant proceed through final site plan approval with staff as required by the Sandy
City Development Code.
2. That the Conditional Use Permit for the gasoline sales and extended business hours be
extended only to 6:00 A.M. to Midnight and be reviewed upon future legitimate citizen
complaint or staff observation of non-compliance with conditions.
3. That the applicant be responsible to meet all provisions of the Sandy City Development Code
and all conditions of approval that are included in this report and as may be imposed by the
Planning Commission to mitigate the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed
use.
4. That UDOT must allow the right-in-right-out shared driveway on 9000 South Street.
5. That fuel deliveries and the dumping of the trash by commercial trash removal service be
limited to 7:00 A.M. to 10:00 P.M.
6. Dense landscape screening to be included, defined as additional conifer trees with 10%
overlap, with trees reaching 20-feet at maturity.  (See attached Exhibit #3 – Staff Report and
minutes from the October 18, 2018 Planning Commission meeting)

On March 21, 2019 the Planning Commission reviewed a request for 24/7 hours of operation
based upon new technical information relative to the anticipated detrimental impacts to the
neighboring residential properties, from site activity generated noise and vehicle produced light
trespass. The Planning Commission approved this request with the following six conditions:
1. That the applicant proceed through final site plan approval with staff as required by the
   Sandy City Development Code.
2. That the Conditional Use Permit for extended business hours to 24/7 be reviewed upon future
   legitimate citizen complaint or staff observation of non-compliance with conditions.
3. That the applicant be responsible to meet all provisions of the Sandy City Development Code
   and all conditions of approval that are included in this report and as may be imposed by the
   Planning Commission to mitigate the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the
   proposed use.

---

Page 4                                            Modification of CUP-7-18-5462

4. That UDOT must allow the right-in-right-out shared driveway on 9000 South Street.
5. That fuel deliveries and the dumping of the trash by commercial trash removal service be
   limited to 7:00 A.M. to 10:00 P.M.
6. That the required boundary wall between the applicant and the residents property be
   constructed with comparable construction techniques and material as the existing fencing on
   the residential properties.
(See attached Exhibit #4 – Staff Report and minutes from the March 21, 2019 Planning
Commission meeting). This is the Conditional Use Permit approval under which 7-Eleven is
currently operating.

NOTICE
Notices were mailed to the property owners within a 500-foot radius of the subject parcel in
advance of the Planning Commission meeting.

ANALYSIS
The Planning Commission should consider the relevant sections of the City Code regarding a
modification or revocation of a Conditional Use Permit (below).

Section 21-33-6 – Modification or Revocation

All approvals of Conditional Use Permits are conditional upon additional reviews, after the use has been
established, to determine if the actual detrimental impacts and effects have been mitigated or eliminated
to meet the General Standards set forth herein and to evaluate whether they continue to be effective in
doing so.  If the use does not meet the General Standards, additional conditions may be imposed to
achieve compliance.  The Planning Commission, on its own motion or upon a staff recommendation or
after receipt of an applicant's request, may hold a hearing upon the question of modification or revocation
of a Conditional Use Permit granted under or pursuant to the provisions of this Section.  The Planning
Commission may modify the conditions under which the conditional use was granted or revoke the
Conditional Use Permit if the Commission finds:

(1)     The actual detrimental effects or impacts are greater than anticipated.

(2)     The permit was obtained by misrepresentation or fraud.

(3)     The use for which the permit was granted has now ceased for at least six consecutive calendar
        months.

(4)     One or more of the conditions of the permit have not been met.

(5)     The holder or user of the Conditional Use Permit has failed to comply with any City, State or
        Federal law governing the conduct of the use.

(6)     The holder or user of the Conditional Use Permit has failed to construct or maintain the site as
        shown on the approved plan.

---

Page 5                                            Modification of CUP-7-18-5462

(7)     One or more of the General Standards have not been met.


For reference, the General Standards for Conditional Use Permits are included below:

21-33-3 General Standards for Conditional Uses

No conditional use may be approved unless the proposed use complies with the applicable provisions of
this Code, State and Federal law; and the following standards that apply to all conditional uses

(1)     Equivalent to Permitted Use.  Any detrimental impacts or effects from the proposed use on any
        of the following shall not exceed those that could reasonably be expected to arise from a use that
        is permitted in the district:

        a.   The health, safety, and welfare of the City and its present and future inhabitants and
             businesses.

        b.   The prosperity of the City and its present and future inhabitants and businesses.

        c.   The morals, peace and good order, comfort, convenience and aesthetics of the City and its
             present and future inhabitants and businesses.

        d.   The tax base.

        e.   Economy in governmental expenditures.

        f.   The State's agricultural and other industries.

        g.   The urban and non-urban development.

        h.   Access to sunlight for solar energy devices.

        i.   Property values.

(2)     Impact Burden.  Any cost of mitigating or eliminating detrimental impacts or effects in excess
        of those which could be reasonably expected to arise from a permitted use shall become a charge
        against the development so as not to constitute a burden on the municipality, surrounding
        neighbors, or adjacent land uses.

(3)     Conform to the Objectives of the General Plan.  The proposed conditional use shall not limit
        the effectiveness of land use controls, imperil the success of the General Plan for the community,
        promote blight, or injure property values.

---

Modification of CUP-7-18-5462                     Page 6

STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission deliberate the seven criteria found in 21-33-6
and direct staff to draft findings and conclusions related to these criteria which will be reviewed
and approved at a future Planning Commission meeting, or as an alternative, continue the
hearing so the Planning Commission has time to consider all of the facts presented at this hearing
and make a decision at a future Planning Commission meeting.


Planner:  [initials handwritten: BM]              Reviewed by: ___________________
Brian McCuistion, Planning Director
