                               MEMORANDUM
                                         October 21, 2021


 To:          Planning Commission
 From:        Community Development Department
 Subject:     Monte Cristo at LaCaille Subdivision (Preliminary           SUB04262021-006034
              Review)                                                     SPX10122021-006172
              9701 S. 3775 E.                                                      7.77 Acres
              [Community #30 – Granite]                                          Zone: R-1-15


HEARING NOTICE: This item has been noticed to property owners within 500 feet of the
             subject area. A physical sign has also been posted on the property.



                                 PROPERTY CASE HISTORY
  Case Number                                     Case Summary
 ANEX-2-15-4083        Little Cottonwood Lane – Part B Annexation effective May 6, 2015
  ANEX-11-20-
                       Monte Cristo Annexation, effective May 19, 2021
      5954

REQUEST
Mr. Chris McCandless has submitted an application for a preliminary subdivision review of a
proposed development called Monte Cristo at LaCaille. This property (approximately 7.77 acres)
is proposed to be subdivided into 13 single-family lots. The applicant is not asking for any overlay
zones to be applied, but is asking for a number of special exceptions:
    1. Private right-of-way less than 52 feet
    2. Private Road with use of pavers for road material, and lots without public frontage
    3. Waiver to requirement for sidewalk & parkstrip on both sides of right-of-way
    4. Subdivision with less than two points of ingress/egress
    5. Single access road longer than 750' in the Sensitive Area Overlay Zone

BACKGROUND
The proposed project is located at 9701 S. 3775 E. It is zoned R-1-15. It is bordered by the LaCaille
property in the County to the west. To the south and the east are single-family homes in the R-1-
15 zone. To the north are single-family homes located in Cottonwood Heights.
Monte Cristo Village Subdivision – SUB04262021-006034
and SPX10122021-006172                                                                    Page - 2 -




NOTICE
Notices were mailed to property owners within a 500-foot radius of the subject parcel to notify
them of the Planning Commission meeting. Additionally, a physical sign was posted on the
property. The applicant also held a neighborhood meeting on April 28, 2021. There were several
questions and concerns raised during the meeting. A full summary of the meeting is attached to
this report.

ANALYSIS
This plat will establish a total of 13 single-family residential units. Three lots (Lots 110, 111 and
112) will access onto a public street, while the remaining 10 lots will have frontage along the main
private road. The plat calls out limited disturbance areas, which are for the prioritization and
conservation of trees. For example, trees may not be removed in order to install an RV pad. The
trees take priority. The HOA will be enforcing these limited disturbance areas. The development
is zoned R-1-15, which is a standard zone within Sandy City. As such, the zone will dictate lot
frontage requirements, setbacks, and building height, among other standards. This area is also
within the Sensitive Area Overlay (SAO) Zone and will need to comply with all of the
requirements of this overlay zone.

SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS

1. Private right-of-way less than 52 feet [21-21-10(f)]
   Street right-of-way widths shall be as shown on the Transportation Master Plan and, where
   not shown therein, shall not be less than the following (unless modified by a waiver or
   special exception as allowed herein)

                      Street Type                                 Right-of-Way Width
     Private Street                                  52 feet (27 feet pavement width minimum)

   Staff Analysis and Recommendation for #1
   The right-of-way for the interior private road is proposed with a cross section of 38 feet, rather
   than the typical 52 feet. However, the right-of-way contains the same amount of pavement as
   a typical local road (27’). It is designed with a six-foot curb-adjacent sidewalk on one side of
   the road, which will help create and maintain a more rural feel around the LaCaille property
   and its vineyards. Staff and the City Engineer supports this request.

2. Private roads with use of pavers for road material, and lots without public frontage. [21-21-
   21(b)]

   Except as may be otherwise provided in this title, all lots shall have the required frontage
   upon a dedicated and improved street. Exceptions may include the following:
Monte Cristo Village Subdivision – SUB04262021-006034
and SPX10122021-006172                                                                   Page - 3 -


   (1) Residential building lots that do not have frontage upon a public street shall obtain a
       special exception from the Planning Commission as part of the preliminary review
       process.

   Staff Analysis and Recommendation for #2

   Because staff supports the other special exception requests, and the private road system is at
   the heart of the concept that is being proposed, along with the fact that the lots have frontage
   on the private street system, staff and the City Engineer supports this request.

3. Waiver to the requirement for sidewalk and parkstrips on both sides of the right-of-way.[21-
   21-10(n)

   Curbs, gutters, parkstrips, and sidewalks shall be required on all existing and proposed
   public and private street frontage of any lot within a subdivision or legal buildable parcel in
   conformance with the Standard Specifications. The Planning Commission may grant a
   special exception to waive any of these improvements, after considering a recommendation
   from the Director and City Engineer. They shall consider and evaluate the following
   criteria:
       (1) The number of homes within the subdivision;
       (2) The length of a cul-de-sac;
       (3) The precedence of adjoining improvements;
       (4) The configuration of lots;
       (5) Where the only other alternative is a private road design;
       (6) Flood control and storm drainage;
       (7) Pedestrian safety and walkable element demands;
       (8) The proposal equitably balances the needs of the public and presents the most
       efficient use of land;
       (9) The potential negative impacts created by the waiver(s); and
       (10) The cumulative effect of all the waivers and any other exceptions requested for the
       development.
Staff Analysis and Recommendation for #3

The applicant is not asking for an exception for curb and gutter, just for park strips on both sides
of the street and one sidewalk. There will be a six-foot wide sidewalk adjacent to the curb that
continues along the entire main road through the development. There is adequate pedestrian
connectivity through the project. There have been many precedents where this narrower right-of-
way profile have been implemented successfully. It also serves as an low impact development
(LID) component of the development. It will help minimize cuts and fills due to infrastructure, and
provides an opportunity to preserve more natural features and vegetation. It also reduces
construction impact. It equitably balances the needs of the public and presents the most efficient
use of land. The cumulative effect of this with the other waivers is a net positive for the
development and for the public. Staff and the City Engineer supports this request.
Monte Cristo Village Subdivision – SUB04262021-006034
and SPX10122021-006172                                                                   Page - 4 -


4. Subdivision with less than two points of ingress/egress [21-21-10(d)(1)]

(d) At least two points of ingress/egress shall be provided for each subdivision, PUD, or
multifamily project. They shall be located at a distance apart equal to not less than one-half of
the length of the maximum overall diagonal dimension of the property area to be served,
measured in a straight line between accesses.
       1. Special Exception. The Planning Commission may grant a special exception to allow
       a subdivision to have only one point of ingress/egress, after considering a
       recommendation from the Director and City Engineer, under the following
       circumstances:

               a. Thirty or fewer lots/units are accessed from the single ingress/egress;

               b. The Director and City Engineer have reviewed the potential for impairment of
               such single access resulting from vehicle congestion, condition of the terrain,
               climatic conditions or other factors that could limit access and have made either
               a positive or negative recommendation to the Planning Commission with
               regards to a single point of ingress/egress; and

               c. The proposed development project has one or more of the following, as
               determined and recommended for approval or denial by the Director and City
               Engineer to the Planning Commission:

                       1. One or more cul-de-sacs, hammerheads, or other approved turn-
                       arounds that comply with all development standards herein.

                       2. An emergency access (a point of ingress/egress that provides access
                       for emergency vehicles to respond to a building, or facility, in the event
                       the main access is compromised. The design of this access must meet the
                       International Fire Code).

                       3. The future extension of a stub street that will provide additional
                       access, including a temporary turn-around.

                       4. All buildings are equipped throughout with automatic sprinkler
                       systems approved by the Fire Marshal and Chief Building Official.

Staff Analysis and Recommendation for #4

The applicant is proposing to develop 13 lots, 12 of which would access onto a private road. This
request meets the criteria that the number of lots accessed from the private road will be fewer than
30. Additionally, two emergency accesses will be available to emergency services at the northwest
end of the development. Also, one of these emergency accesses could be a stub street with potential
connectivity to the road and property to the west should it redevelop. The narrow road through the
Monte Cristo Village Subdivision – SUB04262021-006034
and SPX10122021-006172                                                                      Page - 5 -


existing vineyards will be widened sufficiently to meet Fire Department standards. Staff and the
City Engineer supports this request.

5. Single access road longer than 750 feet in the Sensitive Area Overlay Zone [21-15-4(b)(7)(b)]

(b) A cul-de-sac is permitted up 750 feet in length. It may exceed 750 feet in length through a
    special exception reviewed by the Planning Commission. This request to extend the length
    of the cul-de-sac requires a recommendation from the Director and City Engineer. The
    following shall be evaluated in reviewing the special exception:
   (1) Based upon the subject property's geographical constraints, it can be demonstrated that
       extending the road would better accomplish the stated purposes of this chapter.
   (2) It can be demonstrated that public safety will be improved above existing conditions.
Staff Analysis and Recommendation for #5

The length of the single-access road being presented in the plans is approximately 1,135 feet, and
then it will be gated at its western end. It will also serve as an emergency access to the west for the
Fire Department. However, there is no plan to make this a through street to pedestrians in anything
other an emergency setting. In the sensitive area overlay zone, single-access roads up to 750 feet
are allowed, but anything longer than that requires a special exception from the Planning
Commission. Staff and the City Engineer supports this request.

If this single-access road is longer than the Commission is comfortable with, there is also an option
to approve it as a stub road, with the requirement that it be connected through the vineyard to
LaCaille at a future date. The reason for this is that there are plans to further develop the LaCaille
property in the future. Because they are on City water, they will likely be compelled to annex into
Sandy City, at which time the City will have jurisdiction to make that a mandatory condition of
the redevelopment.

CONCERNS
Staff has the following concerns regarding this proposal as submitted by the applicant:

   1. Only one point of ingress/egress. The road that can be connected to within the County is
      quite narrow, but all of the property is owned by the developer, and it would be possible
      to increase the width of the connecting road and make it public. However, the developer
      does not wish to make this subdivision a traffic shortcut to the public. However, its single
      access point is sufficient to serve a 13-lot subdivision.

   2. The paver materials being used for the road and sidewalk. Staff sees potential issues with
      the maintenance and snow removal of the proposed road that could be presented due to a
      road that is not traditional pavement or asphalt. However, being a private road, Sandy City
      will not be responsible for the maintenance and snow removal, whereas if it were a public
      road the materials being used would not be acceptable. It is a desirable aesthetic that may
      be well suited to a relatively short and private road such as this. This alternative pavement
      material must be accounted for in their Capital Reserve Study [Section 21-21-11(b)].
Monte Cristo Village Subdivision – SUB04262021-006034
and SPX10122021-006172                                                                   Page - 6 -



   3. The proposed land use of Parcel A is a concern. During the neighborhood meeting, it was
      presented to the public that this land may be used as a vineyard. The surrounding residents
      have submitted a petition to the planning staff that showed an overwhelming desire for the
      vineyard (The petition is attached to this staff report). However, the property is owned by
      Sandy City, and the Public Utilities Department says that they are unwilling to entertain
      the idea, as further development, including a second well house, will be occurring on the
      property. A vineyard will not be possible for this reason.

STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission approve the following special exceptions:
    1. Private right-of-way less than 52 feet
    2. Private Road with use of pavers for road material, and lots without public frontage
    3. Waiver to requirement for sidewalk & parkstrip on both sides of right-of-way
    4. Subdivision with less than two points of ingress/egress
    5. Single access road longer than 750’ in the Sensitive Area Overlay Zone

   and find that preliminary subdivision review is complete for Monte Cristo at LaCaille
   Subdivision, located at approximately 9701 S. 3775 E., based upon the following findings and
   subject to the following conditions:

Findings:

   1. That the proposed subdivision is an infill development.

   2. That the proposed lot configuration is an efficient use of the land, and all lots comply with
      the requirements of the R-1-15 zone.

   3. The City Engineer has provided a letter of recommendation for approval of the special
      exceptions (attached to this staff report) and other staff have recommended approving the
      special exceptions that have been requested from the City Land Development Code
      requirements for private roads with less than 52’ of right-of-way, for lots with frontage
      onto a private road constructed using pavers rather than pavement or asphalt, for a waiver
      for the requirement of sidewalk and parkstrips on both sides of the right-of-way, for a
      subdivision with less than two points of ingress/egress, and for a private road longer than
      500 feet but shorter than 750 feet.

Conditions:

   1. That the applicant complies with each department’s comments and redlines throughout the
      final review process and that all issues be resolved before the subdivision can be recorded.

   2. That all City provisions, codes, and ordinances are adhered to during the review,
      construction and operations process of this project.
Monte Cristo Village Subdivision – SUB04262021-006034
and SPX10122021-006172                                                               Page - 7 -


   3. A private homeowners association shall be established to ensure maintenance of the
      private road and all other common assets or other areas of maintenance for the
      development. A note shall be included on the plat to provide public notice of said HOA
      and maintenance requirements. The developer shall provide a capital reserve study and
      establish a reserve fund for the HOA.

   4. That any additional road dedication as determined necessary by staff be shown with this
      plat.

   5. That all lots comply with all requirements of the Sensitive Area Overlay Zone, including
      that all buildings must be set back at least an average of 20 feet from any 30 percent or
      greater slope areas, with no part being located closer than 10 feet to it.




Planner: _____________________             Reviewed by: ______________________
Craig Evans, Planner                       Brian McCuistion, Planning Director
