                                                                                       10000 South Centennial

                                     Sandy City                                        Parkway Suite 231
                                                                                       Sandy, UT 84070

                                    Council Office                                     O| 801-568-7141
                                                                                       Sandy.Utah.Gov



                                            Memorandum

                                            October 5, 2021

To:              All City Council Members

Cc:              Mike Applegarth, Council Office Director

From:            Council Member Robinson

Subject:         Green Building Incentives for Development in Sandy City


Purpose:

The purpose of this proposal is to reassert the City’s commitment to green building practices in new
construction and major renovations throughout the city, and to provide leadership and guidance in
promoting, facilitating, and instituting such practices in the private development community by
incentivizing developers who agree in advance to meet and/or exceed the “Silver” level of LEED
certification, HERS Scores of 40 or below, or total electrification (no natural gas connections) for
projects.

Background:

Buildings are a leading contributor to carbon emissions and climate change. Existing buildings and the
building development industry consume nearly half of the total energy used in the United States. The
City is committed to increasing efficiency of certain resources, including energy, water, and materials
associated with construction projects.

The City supports green building in both the public and private sectors, a fact that is reflected in the
City’s rich legislative history from both the Executive and Legislative Branches. Sandy City is set to
implement a formal sustainability plan in the coming weeks, and this proposal would supplement those
efforts by outlining procedures whereby a plan review applicant could receive incentives for proposing
projects involving new construction or major renovation for projects that meet certain sustainable
building criteria is the main goal of this proposal.


Proposal:

With the intention of reducing the impact on the environment, I am proposing that we as a council give
direction to the Community Development Director to draft a code amendment(s) that will provide
incentives for green developments within Sandy City. Due to the complex nature of our codes, tasking
the Community Development Director and subsequent staff to draft this incentive program will allow
the experts who deal with development on a day-to-day basis to come up with the most impactful and
                                                                                          10000 South Centennial

                                      Sandy City                                          Parkway Suite 231
                                                                                          Sandy, UT 84070

                                     Council Office                                       O| 801-568-7141
                                                                                          Sandy.Utah.Gov

effective program for our city. Below are goals my goals for this proposal, but subject matter experts
within the Community Development Department should create/identify the details of the code.

Goals for Proposal:

    1) Creation of an Expedited Plan Review Process
       • Authorizing the Community Development Director to expedite building plan reviews for new
           construction and major renovations in Sandy City.
               o Plan to include a section entitled “Standards for Eligible Green Building Projects”
                   that describes in detail, the LEED process, achieving HERS Scores of 40 and below
                   and the process that entails, or total electrification of projects, including the type
                   and distribution points, that will need to be met for a project to qualify under the
                   “Expedited Plan Review Process.”

    2) Explore financial incentives for projects that meet or exceed “Silver” LEED certification and/or
       HERS Scores of 40 and below, or total electrification of the project.
       • Plan to include a section entitled “Standards for Eligible Green Building Projects” that
           describes in detail, the LEED process, achieving HERS Scores of 40 and below and the
           process that entails, or total electrification of projects, including the type and distribution
           points, that will need to be met for a project to qualify possible financial incentives.
               o Possibly reduce impact fees or building site plan expenses

    3) Develop checklist for developers to submit with project outlining LEED/HERS/Electrification
       standards they intend to implement.
       • Checklist may already be in existence, would need to research.


    4) Ensure code includes measures to follow EPA’s definition of “Green Building”:
       • “At EPA, we define green building as the practice of maximizing the efficiency with which
          buildings and their sites use resources— energy, water, and materials— while minimizing
          building impacts on human health and the environment, throughout the complete building
          life cycle - from sitting, design, and construction to operation, renovation, and reuse.
          (https://archive.epa.gov/greenbuilding/web/pdf/greenbuilding_strategy_nov08.pdf)


Conclusion:

Having this expedited plan review process as well as the potential for financial incentives, will attract
developers with projects that aim to reduce emissions and improve air quality to Sandy. Streamlining
the process will also get these types of projects moved to the top of the list and get them
started/completed in a timely manner. I ask that the council provide an approval on this concept and
allow me and council staff to work closely with our Community Development Director to bring back a
code amendment to reflect the will of the council.
