[page 1]

SANDY CITY COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT

[Sandy Community Development logo]

JAMES SORENSEN
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
DIRECTOR

KURT BRADBURN
MAYOR

MATTHEW HUISH
CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER

MEMORANDUM
March 18, 2021

To:        Planning Commission
From:      Community Development Department
Subject:   The School Yard Dumpster Addition (Preliminary Site Plan Review)
           11020 South State Street                              CBD Zone
           [South Town Commercial, Community #9]                 SPR-01-21-5986
                                                                 3.07 Acres

Public Notice:  In addition to the posting of the meeting agenda, this project was noticed for this
meeting to property owners within 500 feet of the subject property, by U.S. Mail delivery.  A
Neighborhood meeting was not required or held on this project.

PROPERTY CASE HISTORY
CASE NUMBER      | CASE SUMMARY
SUB-06-18-5426   | The School Yard Commercial Subdivision, approved 2018.  Recorded
                 | Plat.
SPR-06-18-5425   | The School Yard Commercial Site Plan. Approved 2018, 5.45 acre site
                 | consisting of three lots in subdivision.  Phase 1 approved.

DESCRIPTION OF REQUEST
The applicant is requesting that the Planning Commission review and approve a modified
commercial site plan impacting Phase 1 of a three phase Commercial Planned Development
known as "The School Yard" project. The request is to modify the rear (West) parking lot area
to add two additional dumpster enclosures to the existing site of the renovated Valley High
School building (Shake Shack Restaurant).  The Planning Commission is the land use approval
body for this action, as designated in the Sandy City Development Code.

BACKGROUND
This approximately 3.07 acre site was previously approved by the Planning Commission in 2018
as Phase 1 of this development.  The Phase 1 project involved the remodeling of the old school

10000 Centennial Parkway  |  Sandy, Utah 84070  |  p: 801.568.7250  |  f: 801.568.7278  |  sandy.utah.gov

[page 2]

The School Yard Dumpster Addition Site Plan Review:        SPR-01-21-5986        Page 2

building into a restaurant (Shake Shack in the southern one half of the school building) and a
future retail or restaurant space in the northern half of the school building.  Phase 1 also included
a new building to the south along State Street.  This property is located at 11020 South State
Street, and is zoned Central Business District, (CBD). From 11000 S. Street, south to 11400
South Street is also zoned CBD.  North of 11000 S. Street is Auto Mall (Commercial) zoning.

ANALYSIS

Existing Dumpster Inadequacy.  The owners of the property, Wadsworth Development, have
experienced over-use of the existing dumpster, by the volume and nature of the trash/garbage
being generated by the sole tenant of the old school building, Shake Shack Burgers and Fries.
More frequent dumping by the private garbage collection service has not helped and the owners
are concerned that the garbage dumping is starting to cause an aesthetic and health issue for the
planned commercial center.  As part of the original phase 1 site plan review, a single dumpster
enclosure was built to the west of the old school building, backing upon 11000 South Street, but
behind the landscaped front yard setback.

Proposed solution.  The owners and their consulting engineers have inquired of City Staff as to
the possibility of adding two additional dumpster enclosures to the site, one on the east and one
on the west of the existing dumpster enclosure.  This is being proposed to both help the existing
inadequacy and to provide additional trash capacity for the future tenant of the north part of the
old school building, which has to date not been leased or occupied.  The two new dumpster
enclosures would be built exactly the same as the existing one, which was approved
architecturally with the original project, to be compatible with the old building.  There is nothing
in the development code that limits the number or the volume of proposed dumpster enclosures.
The CBD zoning district does require that the Planning Commission consider all site plan
requests.

Staff Concerns.  None of the City Departments have any major concerns about this modification
of the site plan to add the two new dumpster enclosures, except Planning and the Transportation
Engineer.  The Transportation Engineer has some minor concerns about the maneuvering space
and approach angles for the pick-up operations vehicles, which can be worked out at the staff
level during final site plan review.  Planning staff's only concern is the visual appearance from
the street on 11000 S. Street.  However, the location of the existing and proposed dumpster
enclosures is also where an additional building could have been located and screening the
streetscape view of surface parking lots is usually desirable from an aesthetic perspective.

STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission approve the addition of two new dumpster
enclosures to the site as proposed by the applicant, based on this staff report, and the three
findings listed below and subject to the following four conditions:

[page 3]

The School Yard Dumpster Addition Site Plan Review:        SPR-01-21-5986        Page 3

FINDINGS:

A.  That the various City Departments and Divisions, including the City Engineer and the
Transportation Engineer, have preliminarily approved the proposed site plan.

B.  That the proposed dumpster enclosures will be built to match the original dumpster
enclosure as approved with the prior Phase 1 site plan in design, materials and colors.

C.  That managing the existing and expected waste capacity, improving the general health and
the aesthetics of the site by the addition of the new dumpster enclosures, benefits the long
term viability of the new shopping center project and the City.

CONDITIONS:

1.  That the developer proceed through the final site plan review process with staff prior to the
start of any construction (including payment of development fees and posting of an
appropriate bond to guarantee completion of all required improvements on and off the site),
according to the Site Plan Review Procedures Handout.  The final site plan shall be in
compliance with all Development Code requirements and those modifications required by
the Planning Commission.

2.  That the Final Site plan will be revised to the satisfaction of the City Transportation
Engineer and City Engineer to adjust the approach angles and maneuvering clearances that
are determined necessary for the proper functioning of the new dumpster enclosures.

3.  That the development comply with all Building & Safety, Fire and Life Safety Codes
applicable to this type of use.

4.  That the architectural design, colors and materials proposed for the additional dumpster
enclosures (and as approved by the Planning Commission as complying with the Sandy
City Architectural Design Standards) shall be finalized with staff prior to the issuance of
a building permit.

Planner:                                          Reviewed by: [initials]
[signature: Douglas L Wheelwright]
Douglas L. Wheelwright
Development Services Manager

[page 4]

[map/plat page 4 — no text]
Legible labels: aerial vicinity map with "Subject Property" callout (hatched parcel); streets "Motor Park Ave", "State St", "11000 S", "Auto Mall Dr", "85 E", "115 E", "Not Named"; numerous parcel address numbers (11020, 11052, 11084, 11100, 11114, etc.); North arrow. Title block: "SPR-01-21-5986 / School Yard Dumpster Addition / 11020 S State Street"; scale bar "0 62.5 125 250 375 500 625 Feet"; "PRODUCED BY DAVID RODGERS / THE COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT".

[page 5]

[map/plat page 5 — no text]
Legible labels: rendered photo-simulation "Dumpster Screening Exhibit". Title: "The School Yard / 11020 S. State Street, Suite B, Sandy, UT 84070". Callouts: "Existing Shake Shack"; "New Dumpster"; "Existing Trees"; "Existing Dumpster"; "New Dumpster"; "Relocated Light Pole"; "New Trees"; "New Tree"; "New Shrub Planting Screen"; "New Shrub Planting Screen"; "11000 South Street". Logos: "ANDERSON WAHLEN & ASSOCIATES"; "SHAKE SHACK".

[page 6]

[map/plat page 6 — no text]
Engineering sheet: "Building 1 Trash Enclosure Demolition Plan", "The School Yard", "State Street & 11000 South Street, Sandy, Utah", "ANDERSON WAHLEN & ASSOCIATES". Scale 1"=10'. Sheet No. C0.1, dated 28 Jan, 2021. Contains "General Demolition Notes" (1-17) and a "CAUTION" note re: utility locations not to be relied on as exact; "Call 811 before you dig" / "Blue Stakes of Utah" logo; PE stamp "Earl LaVar". Plan labels: "Existing Tenant / Restaurant A", "Demolition Limit", "Existing Fire Line to Remain", "Existing Trash Enclosure and a Portion of Concrete Pad to Remain", "Existing Light Pole to be Relocated". (Prose notes not fully legible at this resolution.)

[page 7]

[map/plat page 7 — no text]
Engineering sheet: "Building 1 Trash Enclosure Site Plan", "The School Yard", "ANDERSON WAHLEN & ASSOCIATES". Scale 1"=10'. Sheet No. C1.1, dated 9 Mar, 2021. Contains "Site Construction Notes" (1-11, item 9 "Dumpster Enclosure" highlighted), "Construction Notes" (1-12), "General Site Notes" (1-5), "Construction Survey Note", "Accessible Note", "Survey Control Note", "Private Engineer's Notice to Contractors". Plan shows two highlighted new dumpster enclosures with "Limits of Disturbance" and "Conn. to Existing Enclosure" callouts; "Existing Tenant / Restaurant A". (Fine-print notes not legibly transcribable at this resolution.)

[page 8]

[map/plat page 8 — no text]
Engineering sheet: "Building 1 Trash Enclosure Landscape Plan", "The School Yard", "ANDERSON WAHLEN & ASSOCIATES". Scale 1"=10'. Sheet No. L1.1, dated 28 Jan, 2021. Contains "PLANT SCHEDULE" (Trees: Acer tataricum 'Hot Wings'/Hot Wings Tatarian Maple; Pinus strobus 'Fastigiata'/Columnar Eastern White Pine; Shrubs: Panicum virgatum 'Shenandoah'/Shenandoah Switch Grass; Prunus x cistena/Purple Leaf Sand Cherry; Rhamnus frangula 'Fine Line'/Fine Line Buckthorn; Spiraea x bumalda 'Goldflame'/Goldflame Spirea), "MATERIAL SCHEDULE", "Sandy City Landscape / Irrigation Notes" (1-20), "General Landscape Notes", "Landscape Keynotes" (1-11), "Landscape Notes" (1-30), and detail diagrams "SHRUB PLANTING", "DECIDUOUS TREE PLANTING", "LANDSCAPE CONCRETE CURBING", "EVERGREEEN [sic] TREE PLANTING". Plan labels "11000 South Street", "Existing Restaurant". (Fine-print schedule/notes not fully legibly transcribable.)

[page 9]

[map/plat page 9 — no text]
Engineering sheet: "Building 1 Trash Enclosure Site Plan Truck Turn", "The School Yard", "ANDERSON WAHLEN & ASSOCIATES". Scale 1"=20'. Sheet No. C1.2, dated 9 Mar, 2021. Three truck-turning-movement diagrams showing "Multi-Tenant", "Multi-Tenant Restaurant A / 8,170 SF / FF=4426.64 (Existing School)", "Lot 1", "Jordan & Salt Lake Canal", "11000 South Street", parking-count labels, and back-end garbage truck turn paths.

[page 10]

[map/plat page 10 — no text]
Engineering sheet: "Building 1 Trash Enclosure Details", "The School Yard", "ANDERSON WAHLEN & ASSOCIATES". Sheet No. C3.1, dated 28 Jan, 2021. Standard construction details (Not to Scale): (7) Trash Enclosure incl. "Bollard at Trash Enclosure" and "Typical Bollard"; (6) Curb Ramp Detail (Types A-E); (5) Curb Wall Detail; (8) Not Used; (4) Thickened Edge Walk; (3) Typical Sidewalk Detail; (2) Concrete Paving Section; (1) 24" Curb And Gutter (Standard / Open Face). (Detail callout text not fully legible.)

[page 11]

[map/plat page 11 — no text]
Engineering sheet: "Building 1 Trash Enclosure Site Plan Truck Turn", "The School Yard", "ANDERSON WAHLEN & ASSOCIATES". Scale 1"=30'. Sheet No. C1.2, dated 28 Jan, 2021. Truck-turn plan over "Multi-Tenant Restaurant A / 8,170 SF / FF=4426.64 (Existing School)", "Lot 1", parking stalls. Hand-written red note: "Sandy City Transportation Engineer's Comments". Red-boxed markup comments legible: "Remove landscaped area to give garbage truck more space."; "Remove parking stall, replace with landscaping."; "Rotate dumpster location counter-clockwise to give better access for garbage truck."; "Do not allow garbage truck to overlap parking space."; "Once other changes have been made, re-do auto turn drawing. For clarity, Designate which path goes with which dumpster."
