Sec. 21-19-7. - SD(FM-HSN)—Historic Sandy Neighborhood Farmer’s Market


(a)     Purpose. The SD(FM-HSN) Zone is established to provide an area within the Historic Sandy
      Neighborhood to accommodate limited permanent and temporary commercial uses exclusively for an
      annual farmer’s market. This would allow for a permanent use of plant nursery, while also allowing
      long-term yet seasonal commercial uses (such as produce stands, farmer’s markets, mobile food
      vendors, temporary retail sales, etc.) on an annual basis.
(b)   Uses Allowed.
      (1)   Permitted Uses.
            a.   Agriculture.
            b.   Caretaker’s Residence.
            c.   Temporary Uses (see subsection (d) below).
      (2)   Conditional Use.
            a.   Plant Nursery – production and growing only (public retail sales shall be limited to a
                 temporary use provisions).
      (3)   Not Permitted. All other uses not listed above are prohibited in this zone district.
(c)    Development Standards. Planning Commission review and approval of a site plan is required
      according to standards outlined in the development review process and Special Development (SD)
      District to ensure neighborhood compatibility and adherence to these standards set forth. The following
      standards are to be considered as applying specifically to development in an SD(FM-HSN) District, in
      addition to general standards for commercial development provided in development, site and
      subdivision standards, and landscaping standards of the Land Development Code:
      (1)    Area Requirements. The site must contain a minimum of one acre and be located within the
            Historic Sandy District boundary (as shown in the Historic Sandy Master Plan).
      (2)    Public Frontage. The site must have a minimum of 100 feet of frontage to a major arterial public
            street. Infrastructure improvements (including sidewalk, parkstrip, curb, gutter, and asphalt)
            needed for the public right-of-way road improvements shall not be required. These improvements
            will occur with a future UDOT road improvement project. Road width dedication shall still be
            required as determined by the City Engineer and UDOT.
      (3)    Building Height and Setback Requirements. Any development shall follow the requirements of
            the CN(HSN) Zone.
      (4)   Sign Standards. All signs shall comply with Chapter 21-26.
      (5)    Site Plan. A site plan shall be required that shows all proposed permanent and temporary uses
            and all associated structures (permanent and temporary). It shall also show all proposed and
            required site improvements such as walkways, landscape areas, parking areas, drive isles, etc.
            as typically required and shall follow all requirements for Commercial Site Plan Review as outlined
            in this title.
      (6)   Parking Standards.
            a.   Off Street Parking Requirement. The number of parking spaces required shall be
                 determined by the City Planning Commission based on a parking demand study. On-street
                 parking along the street frontage of the property may be allowed to count toward the off-
                 street parking requirements if approved by the City Engineer and UDOT (only if located on
                 a UDOT right-of-way).
            b.   Surface Materials. Parking/driving surface alternatives to asphalt or concrete may be
                 considered by the City Engineer and Director if another type of all-weather surface is
                 proposed. All weather surface means a covering for driveways and parking spaces that is
                 dust free and not adversely affected by inclement weather. It shall be surfaced with one of
                 the following: asphalt, concrete, chip seal, gravel (graded and compacted), or other
                 stabilized system. An alternative parking/driving surface must be approved by the Planning
                 Commission after receiving a recommendation by the City Engineer and Director. If
                 alternative surfaces are used, then all storm water must be fully retained on-site (including
                 100-year storm events). Accessible routes and other requirements for ADA must be met in
                 consideration of alternative surfaces. Any deviations from the standard must be approved
                 by the Planning Commission after receiving a recommendation from the City Engineer and
                 the Chief Building Official.
      (7)    Zone District Boundary Screening and Fencing. The Planning Commission shall review any
            requests for deviations from a standard eight-foot (8’) masonry fence along the border of
            residentially zoned properties. If the Planning Commission finds unique circumstances or lessor
            impacts than typically anticipated from other commercial uses, they may approve of a smaller
            wall or may review and approve other methods of screening such as bermed landscaping, open
            style fencing, or combination of these methods to accomplish screening and buffering of adjacent
            residential uses.
      (8)    Buildings and Structures. All proposed structures for any permanent or temporary use (including
            any accessory buildings) must be shown on the proposed site plan, including a notation of
            whether the structure will allow for public access. Structures may be allowed to remain
            permanently on site if constructed to meet all applicable zoning, fire, and building codes and have
            obtained site and building permits as permanent structures. Any temporary structures (tents,
            sanitary facilities, etc.) that will be utilized for temporary uses must also be shown on the approved
            site plan and meet all applicable zoning, fire, and building codes and permits. Temporary
            structures must be removed from the site each year after the temporary use period. Any new
            structures shall adhere to the architectural requirements of the CN(HSN) Zone and the Historic
            Sandy Master Plan.
      (9)   General Development Standards. All general development standards for commercial
            development found within this title shall be complied with unless otherwise regulated in this SD
            District.
(d)     Temporary Use Standards. All standards set forth in this title relating to temporary uses shall apply
      to any proposed temporary or seasonal use operating within this zone, with exception of the following
      provisions:
      (1)    Extended Duration. All temporary uses shall be allowed to operate up to a maximum of 180
            consecutive days per calendar year. The property owner shall identify a single 180-day temporary
            use period during the calendar year. No temporary use may commence prior to or terminate after
            the identified 180-day period.
      (2)    Number of Temporary Business. There shall be no limit to the number of temporary uses
            operating at the same time during the temporary use period provided that the site has sufficient
            off-street parking to accommodate the uses.
      (3)   Farmer’s Market. These may occur on a site of at least one acre and may contain any number
            of individual produce growers, and/or manufacturers.
      (4)    Structures. There shall not be a limit to the number of structures used for a temporary use,
            provided they are shown on the approved site plan and obtain required permits each calendar
            year.
      (5)   Other Standards. All other standards of Temporary Uses found within this title shall be complied
            with unless otherwise regulated in this SD District.
(e)   Other Land Uses. If any proposed land use is not listed as a permitted or conditional use by this
      Special Development District, a rezone shall be required, and this special development code section
      will not be applicable to that proposed use or development.
