                           MEMORANDUM
                                      July 15, 2021


 To:         City Council via Planning Commission
 From:       Community Development Department
 Subject:    Partial Street Vacation of Benson Way                        MSC05112021-006047
             (Approximately 6,229 square foot Street Vacation)                Vacating approx.
             [Historic Sandy, Community #4]                                6,229 Square Feet or
                                                                                   0.143 Acres


HEARING NOTICE: This item has been noticed to property owners within 500 feet of the
                  subject area, posted on the property, and on the City and Utah Public
                  Notice websites.

                               PROPERTY CASE HISTORY
 Case Number                                    Case Summary
 S64-01           Mt. Jordan Meadows No. 1 Subdivision was approved Sept. 30, 1964
 MISC-07-20-      Partial Street Vacation of 9270 S. Approved by the Council in 2020.
 5878


DESCRIPTION OF REQUESTS
The applicant, the Sandy City Public Works Department, is requesting a partial street
vacation of Benson Way. If vacated, a portion of Benson Way would then be transferred
to the adjacent properties to the east and west. (See Exhibit1 – Benson Way Partial Street
Vacation Exhibit).

NOTICE
Notices were mailed to property owners within a 500-foot radius of the subject parcel to
notify of the Planning Commission meeting, as well as being posted on the City and State
public notice websites. The property was also posted with a public notice sign on the
property. No neighborhood meeting was required by the Community Development
Director.

ANALYSIS
Benson Way Partial Street Vacation - MSC05112021-006047                                           Page 2



   The reason for the partial street vacation is because this was presented as an eventual part
   of the original Stadium Block Master Plan and was viewed very favorably. This will be
   another step in the Master Plan development. (See Exhibit #2 – Former Vacation and Re-
   Routing Exhibit). The project is being done with an approximate 6.6 million dollar
   federal grant, and another matching 500,000 dollars by Sandy City. 9270 S. has been
   rerouted to Rimando way where it meets State Street at a fully signalized intersection.

   REQUIRED DETERMINATIONS AND FINDINGS
   There are three determinations that need to be made by the Planning Commission and the
   City Council in considering a request for street vacation.

      1. Consent of the abutters. Sandy City staff have agreed to this vacation. The City
         has received no objection from any property owner that abuts the existing road
         segment.
      2. If good cause exists for the street vacation. The requested action allows for the
         current development for the Stadium Block Master Plan realignment. The Public
         Works Department has determined that this particular portion of property will no
         longer be needed for right-of-way or public use.
      3. That neither the public interest nor any person will be materially injured by the
         vacation. No injury to the public will occur due to this partial street vacation.

   STAFF RECOMMENDATION
   Staff recommends that the Planning Commission forward a positive recommendation to
   the City Council for the partial street right-of-way vacation of a portion of Benson Way
   as shown in the attached exhibit, based on the following findings and subject to the
   following conditions of approval:

   FINDINGS
   1. The partial street vacation action by the City will transfer the ownership of the subject
      property to the abutting property owners, who will use the area in future development
      of the property, or agree to own and maintain the property. Therefore, good cause for
      the action exists.
   2. That there is neither material injury to either the public interest nor any person by the
      requested vacation.
   3. Staff has not received any objection from the abutting property owners.
   4. The City Engineer has recommended the approval of the partial street vacation.

   CONDITIONS
   1. That the approval is conditioned upon the City proceeding through the vacation
      process through action by the City Council.

   2. That the recording of the street vacation ordinance be done with the Salt Lake County
      Recorder’s Office.


   Planner:                                             Reviewed by:
   Craig P. Evans, Planner                              Brian McCuistion, Planning Director
