A Comprehensive Residential Traffic Safety Proposal for Sandy City
Council Member Alison Stroud
April 27, 2021

“I thought Sandy doesn’t do speed bumps?”

Bumps
, Humps, Tables, and Cushions
What’s the difference?

Speed Hump Description
Rounded (vertically along travel path) raised areas of pavement typically 12 to 14 feet in length
Often placed in a series (typically spaced 260 to 500 feet apart)
Sometimes called road humps, tables, cushions, or undulations

Many residential streets have ample right-of-way for two lanes of travel plus parking, resulting in higher than desired speeds.

Application
Appropriate for residential local streets and residential/neighborhood collectors
Not typically used on major roads, bus routes, or primary emergency response routes
Not appropriate for roads with 85th-percentile speeds of 45 mph or more
Appropriate for mid-block placement, not at intersections
Not recommended on grades greater than 8 percent
Work well in combination with curb extensions
Can be used on a one-lane one-way or two-lane two-way street

Design &amp; Installation
ITE recommended practice - “Guidelines for the Design and Application of Speed Humps”
Typically, 12 to 14 feet in length; other lengths (10, 22, and 30 feet) reported in practice in U.S.
Speed hump shapes include parabolic, circular, and sinusoidal
Typically spaced no more than 500 feet apart to achieve an 85th percentile speed between 25 and 35 mph
Hump heights range between 3 and 4 inches, with trend toward 3 - 3 ½ inches maximum
Often have associated signing (advance warning sign before first hump in series at each hump)
Typically have pavement markings (zigzag, shark's tooth, chevron, zebra)
Taper edge near curb to allow gap for drainage
Some have speed advisories
Need to design for drainage, without encouraging means for motorists to go around a hump

Design

Signage &amp; Pavement Markings
Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices

Potential Impacts Summary
No impact on non-emergency access
Average speeds between humps reduced between 20 and 25 percent
Speeds typically increase approximately 0.5 to 1 mph midway between humps for each 100 feet Beyond the 200-foot approach and exit of consecutive humps
Traffic volumes diversion estimated around 20 percent; average crash rates reduced by 13 percent
Impacts to ease of emergency-vehicle throughput
Approximate delay between 3 and 5 seconds per hump for fire trucks and up to 10 seconds for ambulances with patients
$2,500 to $4,500

Speed Reduction

Speed Problems
Discussed concerns with Council on 11/17/20
Common resident complaint
Possibilities brought up by council
Need for hard data to define where challenges are in residential areas
Work group including PD, Transportation, Schools
Lower speed limits
More driver feedback boards
Focused temporary or permanent additional enforcement
Parking unused patrol cars on residential streets
Tactical urbanism
Tap into neighbors to know where to dedicate resources
University research and/or 
Zero Fatalities
Primary factor in most vehicle accidents
As speed goes up, time to respond goes down
Speeding Data Reviewer:
https://sandycity.maps.arcgis.com/apps/webappviewer/index.html?id=2650fb58eb8f4df9a91f747f9d0d22ed
81% of Sandy road miles are 30 mph or less
1,627 Speeding violation issued in 25 and 30 mph zones between January 2018 and October 20

Changes in 85th percentile speed
Traveling 35 mph in a 25 mph zone is a 
40% 
increase 
in speed…
This would be equivalent to traveling 
98 mph 
in a 70 mph zone.

Case Studies

Salt Lake City
Problem
The effectiveness of speed humps, 14 ft (4.3 m) wide by 3.5 in (8.9 cm) high, and tables, 22 ft (6.7 m) wide, on 12 streets in Salt Lake City, Utah was investigated. Mean and 85th percentile spot speeds, speed limit compliance, motor-vehicle crashes, and resident opinions were considered.
Method
Spot speeds were collected at 18 “between-hump” locations. Motor-vehicle crash data were obtained for “before” and “after” periods of equal duration. A total of 436 residents were surveyed; 184 responded.
Results
The 
mean and 85th percentile speeds decreased at 14 and 15 locations
, respectively. The average reduction in the 85th percentile speed (3.4 mph or 5.4 km/h) was significant in flat and rolling terrain, but not on uphill or downhill segments. The 
number of sites with 50% speed limit compliance increased from 4 to 12
. The number of motor-vehicle crashes decreased from 10 to 9; the change was not significant, but injury crashes decreased from five to one. Regarding the residents, 30% were positive, 25% were negative, and 45% offered suggestions, some of which were conflicting.

Iowa
Iowa Department of Transportation
Results for two rural Iowa cities: Atlantic and 
LeClaire
“Both the speed hump and the speed table were 
effective in reducing mean speeds at the device and immediately downstream
.”
“The results of the peak speed analysis indicated that the temporary speed hump and temporary speed table both 
effectively reduced vehicles traveling at higher speeds
.” 
“An evaluation of the 85th percentile speeds indicated that both the temporary speed hump and temporary speed table 
effectively reduce 85th percentile speeds at the location of the device and for at least the length of data collection downstream 
(about 400 feet).”

Emergency Services

Alternative designs mitigate emergency services delays

In a 2000 study by 
Bunte
 investigated the effects of the speed cushion on the response times in Austin Texas. Results showed that 
speed cushions had very little impact, if any, on increasing response times of emergency response vehicles
. Average delay times were less than a second, except for the vehicle that was transporting a critically ill/injured patient which had an average delay of 4.84 seconds on total travel time. Overall, the study found that 
speed cushions are less detrimental to negatively impacting emergency response times than speed humps
. 
From 
A Comparative Study of Speed Humps, Speed Slots and Speed Cushions by 
LaToya Johnson and A.J. 
Nedzesky

Overview
EVALUATION

SUMMARY from the Portland Oregon Department of Transportation study on Offset Speed Tables:
From the outset PDOT has had concerns that efforts to nullify the effect of speed humps for emergency response, as with speed cushions, would also render them ineffectual at reducing speeding. Testing conducted by PDOT and the Portland Fire Bureau successfully showed the ability of the offset speed table design to reduce emergency vehicle delay, especially the largest trucks that normally suffer the greatest delay. A reduction in maximum delay from 4.8 seconds at standard speed tables where the target response speed is 30 mph to the typical 2 second delay at offset speed tables represents a better than 50% reduction in emergency vehicle delay. PDOT is confident that the offset speed table will continue to reduce speeding as effectively as standard speed tables.

Snowplow Operations

Presentation to the Transportation Association of Canada:
A consultation with municipalities that had speed humps installed for many years reported that 
winter conditions and winter maintenance generally do not cause major problems for the majority of municipalities studied
: speed humps maintain their ability to control speed, exhibit little deterioration and cause few problems for snow removal operations. This has also been reported by a variety of Canadian provinces and U.S. states. Certain precautions must be taken, however.
The 
design 
of the speed hump plays a significant role. A progressive slope with a sinusoidal shape is easier for snow removal vehicles to negotiate. Operators must 
adapt their methods
, properly positioning the blade of their equipment and taking the time to remove snow from the areas on and around the speed hump where it tends to accumulate. The blade must be raised slightly in order to avoid damaging speed humps, but care must also be taken to remove all of
 
the snow and ice that has built up. Removing snow from speed humps therefore requires adjusted methods and possibly additional time. 
Snow removal for speed cushions is more difficult because of the space between the cushions and the possibility that snow can accumulate
.

Boulder, CO

Rubberized Speed Cushion
 Temporary/Removable
 Costs estimated from hundreds to a few thousand per device + installation
Small investment can result in sufficient test sites
Installation is quick
Rosehill Speed Cushion Fitting In Less than 30 Minutes - Bing video
 Suggesting initial investment for test humps of $20,000
(in addition to the new $80k for driver feedback boards)
https://youtu.be/3l6S5rcdYhY

Speed Hump/Cushions Summary
Advantages
Speed reduction
Volume reduction
Accident frequency reduction
Accident severity reduction
Crime reduction
Cushions (versus humps) mitigate emergency response delays
Disadvantages
Potential emergency response delays
Traffic diversion if alternate routes not considered
Snow removal/maintenance adjustments
Noise

EVALUATION
Discussion

The ASK/proposal
Policy Questions
Is residential speeding a problem?
Is this plan a comprehensive solution worth exploring?
If so, 
 City Council and Administration Communications staff work to develop a communications/outreach/survey plan &amp; costs.
 City Council to include appropriation for new driver feedback boards
 Council request the Administration form a work group with Transportation Engineering, Streets Maintenance/Plow Operators, Police Department, Fire Department, to evaluate potential devices, configuration, location, costs.

Possible Motions for 2
nd
 reading
A. Motion to work with Administration to create an education and outreach program to educate residents on safe speeds.
B. Motion to approve $80k to be used for additional driver feedback boards.
Council contingency as a possible funding source
Include 
as FY 2021-22 budget amendment
C
. Motion to approve $20K for temporary speed humps/tables.
Council contingency as a possible funding source
Include 
as FY 2021-22 budget amendment

Remember: 
THIS IS A TEST

PHASE 1
“Sandy Safe Speed” focused communication campaign
Utilize City/Council platforms to remind people to slow down
Augment w/ PSAs, videos, crash data, enforcement data
Announce other phases of campaign
Resident survey
Investment and installation of driver feedback boards
Pilot project on speed humps

References
Institute of Transportation Engineers. “Speed Hump.” 
Traffic Calming Fact Sheets
. May 2018 Update
U.S. Department of Transportation, Federal Highways Administration. “Engineering Speed Management Countermeasures: A Desktop Reference of Potential Effectiveness in Reducing Speed.” July 2014.
Wayne D. Cottrell 
Naree
 Kim Peter T. Martin H. Joseph Perrin Jr.. “Effectiveness of traffic management in Salt Lake City, Utah.” Journal of Safety Research, Volume 37, Issue 1, 2006, Pages 27-41.
Iowa Department of Transportation. “Temporary Speed Hump Impact Evaluation.” July 2002.
U.S. Department of Transportation, Federal Highways Administration. Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD)
National Association of City Transportation Officials. Urban Street Design Guide.

References
LaToya Johnson and A.J. 
Nedzesky
. A Comparative Study of Speed Humps, Speed Slots and Speed Cushions.
Catherine 
Berthod
, Engineer and Urban Planner 
Ministère
 des Transports du Québec. “Traffic Calming Speed Humps and Speed 
Cushions.”Presentation
 prepared for the session on How To Encourage the Safe Coexistence of Different Modes of Transportation. 2011 Annual Conference of the Transportation Association of Canada in Edmonton, Alberta.

PHASE 2
Invest in additional Driver Feedback Boards
$80,000 buys 10 additional boards (5 pairs)
Include in FY 2021-22 Budget
Currently $100,000 in FY 2020-21
Retain for FY 2021-22
Total new Driver Feedback Board investment: $180,000

Location of current driver feedback boards

Driver feedback boards with 25-30 mph hotspots

PHASE 3
Residential Speed Survey
A platform for communicating about safe speeds in residential areas
Gauge resident acceptance of traffic control and enforcement mechanisms
Highlight geographic areas of concern
Possibly reference stats from public safety survey
Engage Qualtrics to develop proposal and cost estimate
What we know…2020 Public Safety Survey
60% of residents satisfied with traffic enforcement
21% no opinion
20% dissatisfied

PHASE 4
Speed hump/cushion pilot project
Test effectiveness of temporary speed humps/cushions as a traffic control devices in residential areas
Monitor emergency services response times
Consider test areas for snowplow operation OR remove devices for winter season
Monitor costs of deployment v. effectiveness
Options:
End pilot project
Consider expanding test sites
Consider permanent installations (asphalt rather than rubberized devices)