                             MEMORANDUM
                                       March 11, 2021


 To:         Planning Commission
 From:       Community Development Department
 Subject:    Kuwahara Wholesale - Proposed SD(FM-HSN) Zone -               CODE-11-20-5947
             Amend Title 21, Chapter 19, Special Development (SD)
             Districts, of the Sandy Municipal Code


HEARING NOTICE: This item has been noticed on public websites, and in the newspaper at least
                10 days prior to the Public Hearing.



                              PROPERTY CASE HISTORY
    Case Number                                Case Summary
  ZONE-10-16-5148   A rezone of the rear portion of these properties from the R-1-7.5(HS)
                    to CN(HSN) was approved by the City Council on December 6, 2016.
  CODE-10-16-5150   A code amendment that added “plant nursery” as a conditional use in
                    the CN(HSN) Zone was approved by the City Council on December 6,
                    2016.
  CUP-12-16-5180    A conditional use permit was approved by the Planning Commission
                    on January 19, 2017 for a limited plant nursery use.
  CODE-06-19-5668 & A pair of proposed code amendments that were not recommended by
  CODE-06-19-5669   the Planning Commission on September 5, 2019. The applicant did
                    not end up pursuing these requests further.

REQUEST
The purpose of the Code Amendment is to consider adding a new section within this chapter to
create a new Special Development District for Kuwahara Wholesale and amend qualification
requirements for the application of SD Zones within the City. On November 3, 2020, the City
Council requested City Staff to work on preparing a new zone or Special Development Zone to
accommodate the needs of the Kuwahara Wholesale business, located at 8565 & 8575 South
State Street. The Council gave staff some stated goals and objectives that this request should
address (see Council Office Memo dated November 3, 2020). Staff prepared a draft of this
proposed code amendment to create a new SD Zone known as the SD(FM-HSN) - Historic Sandy
SD(FM-HSN)-Historic Sandy Neighborhood Farmer’s Market – CODE-11-20-5947 Page - 2 -


Neighborhood Farmer’s Market and presented it to the Council on February 2, 2021. The Council
voted and directed staff to take this proposal through the formal review process for the eventual
adoption of these changes.

                                                                The proposed application of this
                                                                zone would be applied to
                                                                approximately 1.48 acres in Historic
                                                                Sandy. The proposed zone change
                                                                would      allow     for   Kuwahara
                                                                Wholesale to bring their site into
                                                                compliance with City Codes. It will
                                                                still require Kuwahara to make
                                                                some further improvements and
                                                                changes to their site to bring it into
                                                                compliance, but it lessens some of
                                                                the requirements that they deemed
                                                                burdensome or undesired. A full site
                                                                plan process will need to take place
                                                                before those those improvements
                                                                can be made to ensure they are done
                                                                in conformity with all city
                                                                requirements. It also identifies
                                                                specific land uses, and an expansion
                                                                of temporary uses that allows them
                                                                to use this property in a way that fits
                                                                their business plan.

                                                            BACKGROUND
                                                            Kuwahara Wholesale has a long
                                                            history on this site. This is a locally
                                                            owned and operated business. It has
been growing and expanding over the past five (5) years. The City would like to keep it at this
location and allow it to continue to grow. In 2016, the City helped Kuwahara through a rezone
and a code amendment, and conditional use permit to get them on the path to compliance with
city code. In those intervening years, the business has continued to expand and exceed the
requirements of the existing zone.

Their business model is a mix of permanent and temporary uses and does not fit well into either
category. After many discussions with the owners and a few of their own proposed code
amendments in 2019 that were not approved, the City has forged a middle ground with this
proposed code amendment. It would allow this business to continue to grow in such a way that
there is a clear path for the owners to bring this site into full compliance with all City regulations.
Most of the changes and alterations made to the site in the past several years have not been done
through the City’s required review processes and have been done without permits. The City has
been working with this business to bring them into conformity and legal status during this
period.
SD(FM-HSN)-Historic Sandy Neighborhood Farmer’s Market – CODE-11-20-5947 Page - 3 -


The subject area includes two (2) parcels that are owned by Alex Kuwahara, who is the owner of
Kuwahara Wholesale (see map). They are located on the east side of State Street in Historic
Sandy. The property is bordered by a variety of commercial and residential uses and zones. To
the north, and south, the properties are zoned CN(HSN) with commercial businesses. To the east
are residential uses (single-family homes) zoned R-1-7.5(HS). To the west are commercial
businesses that are in Midvale City.

ANALYSIS
Kuwahara Wholesale currently operates a year-round plant nursery where they are growing and
producing plants. This business sells plants (both grown on site and from other locations) and
other items to the public seasonally in a Farmer’s Market like retail experience. They invite other
vendors onto the site to sell items at times as well (food trucks, produce stands, etc.). They have
two single-family homes located on the property that are still used as residences.

This mix of uses is not something that would typically be allowed in this CN(HSN) zone or in
other commercial areas of the City. When a property is converted from a residential to
commercial use, the residential use must cease, and the buildings must be converted to meet
commercial codes and standards. All elements of the property must be brought into conformity
for a commercial business, including a formal parking lot that is required to provide off-street
parking for employees and patrons, boundary screening fencing, etc. Temporary uses are limited
to operate on commercial properties for no more than 150 days a year. This business is open to
the public for retail sales and services well beyond 150-days and is operational during a specific
time frame of the year. This exceeds many of the limitations our code places on temporary uses.

Staff evaluated the direction provided by the City Council and drafted a new Special Development
zone to accommodate those directives (see Exhibit “B” for a redlined version and Exhibit “A” for
a clean version of the proposed amendments). It represents a middle road between bringing the
site into full conformity with existing codes and not requiring any further improvements and
allowing the business to operate as-is. This proposed SD Zone allows some relaxation of typical
requirements and creates new standards that only apply to this site. It allows Kuwahara
Wholesale to operate their business while not being in violation of any codes.

The SD zone caters to allowing the primary use of a plant nursery to continue as a conditional
use (a conditional use permit was issued for this use in 2016). The other uses allowed within this
zone would be agricultural, caretaker’s residence (an employee or owner who works for the
related business), and assorted temporary uses. If other uses are sought on this property or if
Kuwahara ever leaves the sight, a rezone back to the CN(HSN) zone would be required and this
SD Zone could be eliminated.

The proposed SD Zone has location criteria designed that would restrict this zone from being
applied in other areas of the City besides this site in Historic Sandy. Where standards are not
unique to this zone, it shall conform to those found in the CN(HSN) Zone. This does establish
unique criteria for parking, parking surfaces, zone district boundary screening, and for
temporary and permanent buildings.

Under the proposed regulations of this SD Zone, temporary uses are given greater freedom. It
would allow for any number of seasonal or temporary uses within a designated and continuous
240-day period. That gives them roughly eight (8) months of operation in a given calendar year.
SD(FM-HSN)-Historic Sandy Neighborhood Farmer’s Market – CODE-11-20-5947 Page - 4 -


The site would not be limited to the number of businesses operating so long as it can
accommodate the necessary parking (e.g., located outside of the required parking lot area). It
would also expand the use of Farmer’s Markets to be used on the site. Typically, a Farmer’s
Market is made up of three or more producers coming to a site for sale of their produce/plants
on a site over five (5) acres. This zone would allow for any number of farmers to partner with
Kuwahara to have a seasonal Farmer’s Market every year during this temporary period on this
site that is just under 1.5 acres.

The purpose of the Special Development Districts is “to allow the most efficient and creative
development of lands that have unique or unusual characteristics. The SD District is intended to
be used for development when it can be shown that no other zone classification would be
adequate or appropriate for reasonable development” (see section 21-19-01(a)). This
application seems to fit those criteria.

The proposed SD(FM-HSN) zone accomplishes the purpose of allowing Kuwahara to remain and
expand their current uses on the site and provide a pathway to bring their current and proposed
site improvement into conformity with City Code.

Staff has also proposed to amend a few minor sections within the SD Zone qualification and
district designation sections in 21-19-1 that will allow this SD Zone to be created on a property
less than 2 acres.

STAFF RECOMMENDATIONS
The Community Development Department requests that the Planning Commission forward a
positive recommendation to the City Council to adopt the proposed ordinance amendment as
shown in Exhibit “A”, attached, for the following reasons:

1.      The proposal complies with the Purpose of the Land Development Code as stated in
        section 21-01-03.

2.      Compliance with the Goals and Policies of the General Plan by establishing appropriate
        development standards for all uses and zoning categories within Sandy City.


Planner:




Mike Wilcox
Zoning Administrator

File Name: S:\USERS\PLN\STAFFRPT\2020\CODE-11-20-5947_ SD ZONE FOR HISTORIC SANDY\STAFF REPORT.DOCX
