                              MEMORANDUM
                                       February 18, 2021


 To:          Planning Commission
 From:        Community Development Department
 Subject:     Wild Goose Estates Subdivision (Preliminary Review             SUB-11-20-5940
              and Special Exception Requests)                               SPEX-02-11-5990
              2570 E. 10000 S.                                                Zone: R-1-20A
              [Community #21 – Falcon Hill]                                       4.27 Acres



HEARING NOTICE: This item has been noticed to property owners within 500 feet of the subject
                area, in addition to posting a sign on the property.



                                PROPERTY CASE HISTORY
  Case Number                               Case Summary


DESCRIPTION OF REQUEST
The applicant, KLK Wild Goose, LLC, is requesting preliminary review for a seven-lot single
family subdivision. The applicant is also requesting the following five special exceptions:
    1. Exception for a road length greater than 500 feet
    2. Exception for a right-of-way width less than 52 feet
    3. Exception for lots without public frontage
    4. Exception for a subdivision with less than two points of ingress/egress
    5. Exception for a waiver to the requirement for park strip, curb and gutter, and sidewalk on
        both sides of the right-of-way

BACKGROUND & SITE CONDITIONS
The subject property is approximately 4.27 acres in size and currently contains an existing
home and a barn. Both structures are planned to be demolished as part of this new
subdivision. It is located in the R-1-20A zone and will be accessed from 10000 S., as there is
a 50-foot access easement to the north that runs through the County properties located to
the north of this development. In addition to the two lots located in the County to the north,
Wild Goose Estates Subdivision – SUB-11-20-5940 & SPEX-02-11-5990                         Page 2


the southern parcel that is part of this development is also currently in the County. All
three of these County lots are currently moving forward to annex into Sandy City.
The narrow property that abuts this development to the west is owned by the Metropolitan
Water District, and beyond that are a number of single-family homes in the R-1-10 zone.
Finally, South of this development are single-family homes in the R-1-10 and R-1-20 zones.
All homes that border the property to the east are single family homes under the
jurisdiction of Salt Lake County as well, but they are not annexing into Sandy City.

NOTICE
Notices were mailed to property owners within a 500-foot radius of the subject property as per
Sandy City Land Development Code requirements, to notify them of the Planning Commission
meeting. A neighborhood meeting was held Wednesday, January 6, 2021. Resident comments
and concerns from this meeting largely centered around wanting to minimize the
impact/disturbance created by the new development, as well as concerns regarding home sizes
and heights, a traffic and pedestrian conflict point along 10000 S. creating the need for sidewalk
and road improvements there, along with others. A full summary of the neighborhood meeting
comments is attached to this staff report.

SUBDIVISION ANALYSIS
The Wild Goose Estates subdivision is proposed to be a low impact development (LID), in
which it is to use best management practices to use storm water for the site and protect
water quality.

Sec. 21-20-3. - Required Lot Size, Frontage Requirement
The R-1-20A zone is a single-family zone that requires lots to be at least 20,000 square feet
in size. The zone is a standard zone in the City, which means that all provisions for setbacks,
building height, lot frontage, lot size, etc. are all pre-determined by ordinance and must be
adhered to. The proposed plat conforms to most of these standards of the zone. However,
the applicant is seeking five special exceptions from the Land Development Code, as are
outlined below:

SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS
The proposal falls short on meeting some of the development code requirements regarding
public frontage and subdivision design. As such, the applicant is seeking five special
exceptions from the Land Development Code standard requirements.

   1) Special exception for road length over 500 feet [21-21-10(h)]:
          The Planning Commission may grant a special exception to allow a cul-de-sac, or
          single access road, to extend up to a maximum of 750 feet, after considering a
          recommendation from the Director and City Engineer, and under the following
          circumstances:
                 a. It is demonstrated that the proposed development is land-locked by
                    properties that are already fully developed.
                 b. No feasible second point of access can be master planned with
                    redevelopment of the surrounding properties; and
                 c. The Director and City Engineer have reviewed the potential for
                    impairment of such single access resulting from vehicle congestion,
Wild Goose Estates Subdivision – SUB-11-20-5940 & SPEX-02-11-5990                        Page 3


                     condition of the terrain, climatic condition or other factors that could
                     limit access and have made either a positive or negative
                     recommendation to the Planning Commission with regards to
                     increasing the length of the road.

      Staff Analysis and Recommendation for #1
             The proposed single access road, with a cul-de-sac, measures slightly under
             750 feet long. The proposed development is land-locked by properties that are
             already fully developed, or through which there is no opportunity for access.
             No feasible second point of access can be master planned with redevelopment
             of the surrounding properties. The City Engineer has reviewed the conditions
             surrounding the proposed development. Because of the preceding criteria and
             the fact that the road would be less than the 750 foot exception allowed by the
             Land Development Code, staff and the City Engineer support the request.

   2) Special exception for a right-of-way less than 52 feet [21-21-10(f)]
       Street right-of-way widths shall be as shown on the Transportation Master Plan and,
       where not shown therein, shall not be less than the following (unless modified by a
       waiver or special exception as allowed herein):

        Street Type                Right-of-way Width
        Private Street             52 feet (27 feet pavement width minimum)

       Staff Analysis and Recommendation for #2
              Because a private street makes sense in the context of this particular land-locked
              development, and as it has no public frontage, the proposed 32-foot road profile
              with the adjacent drainage swale is appropriate given the rural nature of the area
              and the LID design used to treat storm water. Staff supports this request.

   3) Special exception for lots without public frontage [21-21-21(b)]

       b. Except as may be otherwise provided in this title, all lots shall have the required
          frontage upon a dedicated and improved street. Exceptions may include the
          following:

                         1. Residential building lots that do not have frontage upon a public
                            street shall obtain a special exception from the Planning
                            Commission as part of the preliminary review process.

      Staff Analysis and Recommendation for #3

      Because staff supports approval of the previous special exception request (private street)
      the remaining determination is do all of the lots meet the size and frontage requirements
      of the zone along this private road? In this proposed plan they do, so staff does support
      this request.
Wild Goose Estates Subdivision – SUB-11-20-5940 & SPEX-02-11-5990                       Page 4


   4) Special exception for subdivision without 2 points of ingress/egress [21-21-10(d)(1)]
      The development code requires two points of ingress/egress for a subdivision. The
      Planning Commission may grant a special exception to allow a subdivision to have
      only one point of ingress/egress, after considering a recommendation from the City
      Engineer and Fire Marshal, under the following circumstances:

       a. Thirty or fewer lots/units are accessed from the single ingress/egress;
       b. The Director and City Engineer have reviewed the potential for impairment of such
          single access resulting from vehicle congestion, condition of the terrain, climatic
          conditions or other factors that could limit access and have made either a positive or
          negative recommendation to the Planning Commission with regards to a single point
          of ingress/egress; and
       c. The proposed development project has one or more of the following, as determined
          and recommended for approval or denial by the Director and City Engineer to the
          Planning Commission:
              1. One or more cul-de-sacs, hammerheads, or other approved turn-around that
                  comply with all development standards herein.
              2. An emergency access (a point of ingress/egress that provides access for
                  emergency vehicles to respond to a building, or facility, in the event the main
                  access is compromised. The design of this access must meet the International
                  Fire Code).
              3. The future extension of a stub street that will provide additional access,
                  including a temporary turn-around.
              4. All buildings are equipped throughout with automatic sprinkler systems
                  approved by the Fire Marshal and Chief Building Official.

          Staff Analysis and Recommendation for #4

           The applicant is proposing to develop only seven homes along a single road. Given
           this context, a second access would not be possible for this subdivision.
           Additionally, there is a cul-de-sac that complies with City development standards.
           Staff and the City Engineer support this request.

   5) Special Exception for park strip, sidewalk, and curb & gutter waiver [21-21-10(n)]

       n. Curbs, gutters, park strips, and sidewalks shall be required on all existing and
          proposed public and private street frontage of any lot within a subdivision or legal
          buildable parcel in conformance with the Standard Specifications. The Planning
          Commission may grant a special exception to waive any of these improvements,
          after considering a recommendation from the Director and City Engineer. They shall
          consider and evaluate the following criteria:
                      1. The number of homes within the subdivision;
                      2. The length of a cul-de-sac;
                      3. The precedence of adjoining improvements;
                      4. The configuration of lots;
                      5. Where the only other alternative is a private road design;
                      6. Flood control and storm drainage;
                      7. Pedestrian safety and walkable element demands;
Wild Goose Estates Subdivision – SUB-11-20-5940 & SPEX-02-11-5990                         Page 5


                       8. The proposal equitably balances the needs of the public and presents
                          the most efficient use of land;
                       9. The potential negative impacts created by the waiver(s); and
                      10. The cumulative effect of all the waivers and any other exceptions
                          requested for the development.

            Staff Analysis and Recommendation for #5

               There will be low traffic volumes and a focus on LID design. Because of the fact
               that this is a private road serving a small subdivision and would match the
               precedent of Alta Villa road to the east, the absence of a sidewalk could be
               rationalized and is authorized to be granted by the Planning Commission. Staff
               supports this request.

Because the road is proposed to be private, an HOA will need to be established for road
maintenance, which the applicant has stated he will do. There is also a retention pond located on
the southwest corner of the development which will be maintained by the HOA as well.

Due to the underlying zone (and proposed zone for the Kasteler Annexation), all lots will have
animal rights. The number of animals allowed on each lot is regulated by section 20-11-3
(Animals, Farm and Household pets) of the Land Development Code.

STAFF CONCERNS

Conflict points on 10000 South
It has been stated by residents, and also observed by staff, that a significant amount of
pedestrians pass by the proposed road location. Because the northern lots (which are annexing
into Sandy City) are not part of this development, there are no requirements at this time to install
sidewalk or road improvements on the south side of 10000 S. However, there is curb, gutter, and
sidewalk on the north side of the road. Improvements to the south side of 10000 S. are slated as a
future capital improvement project, when they can be done at the same time to link to future
improvements to the west and east, which are planned to be done at the same time.

Height of Homes
There were concerns expressed at the neighborhood meeting about the potential height of the
homes obstructing the views of the residents to the west of the development. All homes within
Sandy City are required to conform to a 35 foot height limit. Because the homes are across the
aqueduct, the nearest home to the west is approximately 200 feet from this development. It was
asked if the applicant could do rambler style homes on the west side of his property. The City
has no authority to mandate that he do so. He can choose, if he wishes, to restrict the homes on
certain lots to rambler style in the CC&Rs.
Wild Goose Estates Subdivision – SUB-11-20-5940 & SPEX-02-11-5990                        Page 6


STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission determine that preliminary review is
complete and that the following five special exception requests:

    1.   Exception for a road length greater than 500 feet
    2.   Exception for a right-of-way width less than 52 feet
    3.   Exception for lots without public frontage
    4.   Exception for a subdivision with less than two points of ingress/egress
    5.   Exception for a waiver to the requirement for park strip, curb and gutter, and sidewalk on
         both sides of the right-of-way

be approved for the Wild Goose Estates Subdivision, located at 2570 E. 10000 S., based on
the following findings and subject to the following conditions:

Findings:
   1. That the proposed subdivision is an infill development.

   2. That the proposed lot configuration is an efficient use of the land.

   3. That the proposed lot sizes and frontages conform to the requirements of the R-1-20A
      Zone.

   4. That the various City Departments and Divisions have preliminarily approved the
      proposed subdivision plat.

   5. The City Engineer and other staff have recommended approving the special
      exceptions that have been requested from the City Development Code requirements
      for road length over 500 feet, allowing a private road with less than 52 feet of right-
      of-way, lots without public frontage, a subdivision without two points of access, and
      a waiver of curb, gutter, sidewalk, and park strip.


Conditions:
   1. That the applicant complies with each department’s comments and redlines
      throughout the final review process and that all issues be resolved before the
      subdivision can be recorded.

   2. That all City provisions, codes and ordinances are adhered to during the
      review, construction, and operations process of this project, except as
      otherwise approved by waivers or special exceptions granted by the Planning
      Commission.

   3. That all residential lots comply with all requirements of the R-1-20A zone.

   4. A private homeowners association shall be established to ensure maintenance of the
      private road and all other common assets or other areas of maintenance for the
      development. A note shall be included on the plat to provide public notice of said HOA
   Wild Goose Estates Subdivision – SUB-11-20-5940 & SPEX-02-11-5990                     Page 7


         and maintenance requirements. The developer shall provide a capital reserve study
         and establish a reserve fund for the HOA.

      5. That the two existing structures be removed.

      6. That this subdivision approval is subject to the review and final approval of the Kasteler
         Annexation into Sandy City.




Planner: ___________________________          Reviewed by:___________________________
Craig Evans, Planner                          Brian McCuistion, Planning Director
