                                MEMORANDUM
                                         February 11, 2021


 To:           Planning Commission
 From:         Community Development Department
 Subject:      Pepperwood 11E Subdivision (Final Review)                         SUB-01-21-5893
               11140 South Bentwood Lane                                               4.26 Acres
               [Community #28 - Pepper Dell]                                  PUD(1.62), SAO Zone


HEARING NOTICE: This item has been noticed to property owners within 500 feet of the subject
                area.



                                    PROPERTY CASE HISTORY
    Case Number                                       Case Summary
                         On June 5, 1997, the Planning Commission granted Sensitive Area
                         Preliminary and Conditional Use approval for the entire Pepperwood
                         Phase 10 PUD Subdivision that included 132 lots on 105 acres. Since
  S#93-41
                         then, several phases of this proposed Phase 10 subdivision have been
                         developed in smaller phases. The subject property is part of that
                         overall area.

REQUEST
Mr. David Bromley, on behalf of Ensign Properties, is requesting final planned unit development
(PUD) and Sensitive Area Subdivision review of an additional phase of the Pepperwood area in
compliance with the existing zoning of PUD(1.62). This phase will consist of five (5) single-family lots
on 4.26 acres, which would be accessed from a new private street, Bent Hollow Lane. This property
is located at approximately 11140 South Bentwood Lane (approx. 2900 East) (see map for
boundaries).

BACKGROUND
The subject property is bordered on all sides by properties zoned PUD(1.62) which are previous or
future phases of the Pepperwood development. There are existing single-family homes to the
north of the property.
Pepperwood 11E Subdivision – SUB-01-21-5893                                               Page - 2 -


                                                       NOTICE
                                                       Mailed notices were sent to property
                                                       owners within a 500-foot radius of the
                                                       subject parcel to notify them of the
                                                       Planning Commission meeting.              No
                                                       neighborhood meeting has been held on
                                                       this item. Staff felt it was not necessary in
                                                       this case as nothing has changed in the
                                                       design or intent of this application since it
                                                       was previously approved several years
                                                       ago.

                                                       ANALYSIS
                                                       The lot and street layout of this phase of
                                                       the development are consistent to the
                                                       original subdivision plan of the larger
                                                       phase 10 plan. This phase includes five
                                                       (5) lots on 4.26 acres. This equates to a
                                                       density less than 1.62 units per acre and
                                                       is in line with the overall density
                                                       approval of lots for the remaining
                                                       undeveloped area and is consistent with
                                                       the approved phasing plan.

                                                      This property is within the Sensitive Area
Overlay zone. There are areas of 30% or greater slope that affects all the proposed lots. These
areas have been located on the plat and the buildable areas of each lot are indicated on the plat.
The City Engineer has also reviewed the slope study and other geotechnical documents provided
by the applicant.

These lots also have
large areas of natural
vegetation and fall under
the Wildland Urban
Interface Overlay. Thus
balancing removal of
natural vegetation with
mitigating fire hazards
are     an     important
consideration.          A
mitigation of removal of
natural vegetation is to
require fire resistant
building materials.

This phase includes a
new private road, Bent
Hollow Lane. This road
Pepperwood 11E Subdivision – SUB-01-21-5893                                                Page - 3 -


would be connected to Lone Hollow Road on the east and Bentwood Lane on the west. It is
proposed to be built to a similar street cross section of 32’ from curb-to-curb width and conform
to Sandy City standards (40’ overall R.O.W. to be owned and maintained by the Pepperwood
HOA). The entire length of road will be built in this phase and provide access for the future phase
11F.

STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission determine that final subdivision review and
Sensitive Area Overlay Zone review is complete for the Pepperwood 11E Subdivision, located at
approximately 11140 South Bentwood Lane (2900 East), and be subject to the following
conditions:

   1. That street improvements be carried out in accordance with plans and profiles stamped and
      approved by the Sandy City Engineering Department, and specifically:
         a. That the private street system be improved to a 40-foot width, as established with
              other Pepperwood PUD development. This is to include a 32’ wide roadway with
              from curb to curb.
         b. That road grades do not exceed a maximum 12% slope per City Engineering
              specifications.
         c. That appropriate measures be taken by the developer/builder to ensure minimal
              problems with mud tracking, blowing soil or sand during construction.
         d. That any relocation of utilities required by City Ordinance be the responsibility of the
              developer.
         e. That a permit be obtained from the Salt Lake County Surveyor’s Office prior to
              installation of survey monuments. All survey monuments installed shall be in
              accordance with the approved permit.

   2. That compliance be made with the Sandy City Water Policy, e.g., water line extensions,
      connections, water rights, and fire protection.

   3. That all lots comply with all requirements of the PUD(1.62) zone and the Sensitive Area
      Overlay Zone.

   4. That the typical minimum setbacks for the phases of this project be as follows: Front, 40 feet;
      Rear, 25 feet; Side (corner lot), 25 feet; Side, 12 foot minimum for a total of 25 feet. In this
      phase, all lots are deemed to be irregular lots due to 30% slopes and smaller buildable areas.
      Irregular lots shall be allowed a minimum front setback of 25 feet and rear setback of 20 feet.

   5. That structures be prohibited from any area that is equal to or in excess of a 30% slope. The
      location of a structure shall be within an average of 20 feet (no point being closer than 10
      feet) of a continuous hillside slope of 30% or greater.

   6. That any area equal to or in excess of a 30% slope be indicated (cross-hatched) on the final
      plat, and that perspective builders and homeowners be apprised of the restrictive nature of
      the hillside lots.

   7. That all restrictive hillside requirements be included in the restrictive covenants and that a
      copy be made available to the City prior to final plat recordation.

   8. That the existing slope ratio be unaltered and that grading and landscaping of any of the
Pepperwood 11E Subdivision – SUB-01-21-5893                                               Page - 4 -


        hillside areas have approval of the Sandy City Engineering Division in accordance with the
        Sensitive Area Overlay Zone prior to building permits being issued.

    9. That grading, home placement, and vegetation plans be submitted and approved for all lots
       prior to issuance of a building permit. The grading plan shall include a driveway plan and
       profile to assure conforming driveway slope. Any down sloping driveway will require
       approval by the City Engineer.

    10. That homes be constructed of materials approved with a minimum of a one hour rated fire
        resistive construction on the exterior side or constructed with approved noncombustible
        materials. This will be determined on a case-by-case basis at building permit review. Also,
        that an approved noncombustible or fire treated roof covering be utilized for each home.

    11. That lots within this development with slopes of 30% or greater only be allowed to have a
        rear or side yard fence if regulated by the Pepperwood Homeowners Association under Sandy
        City’s most current standards.

    12. That due to the special hillside concerns of this Sensitive Area Overlay Zone, a garage floor
        inspection be required for concrete prior to pouring the garage floors or driveways.


Planner:                                                   Reviewed by:




Mike Wilcox
Zoning Administrator

File Name: S:\USERS\PLN\STAFFRPT\2021\SUB-01-21-5893_PEPPERWOOD 11E\STAFF REPORT.DOCX
