                             MEMORANDUM
                                       March 11, 2021


 To:         Planning Commission
 From:       Community Development Department
 Subject:    Kuwahara Wholesale Rezone, CN(HSN) to SD(FM-HSN)              ZONE-02-21-5995
             8565 & 8575 South State Street                                      1.48 Acres
             Historic Sandy, Community #4


HEARING NOTICE: This item has been noticed to property owners within 500 feet of the subject
                area, on public websites, on the property and in the newspaper.



                              PROPERTY CASE HISTORY
    Case Number                                Case Summary
  ZONE-10-16-5148   A rezone of the rear portion of these properties from the R-1-7.5(HS)
                    to CN(HSN) was approved by the City Council on December 6, 2016.
  CODE-10-16-5150   A code amendment that added “plant nursery” as a conditional use in
                    the CN(HSN) Zone was approved by the City Council on December 6,
                    2016.
  CUP-12-16-5180    A conditional use permit was approved by the Planning Commission
                    on January 19, 2017 for a limited plant nursery use.
  CODE-06-19-5668 & A pair of proposed code amendments that were not recommended by
  CODE-06-19-5669   the Planning Commission on September 5, 2019. The applicant did
                    not end up pursuing these requests further.

REQUEST
On November 3, 2020, the City Council requested City Staff to work on preparing a new zone or
Special Development Zone to accommodate the needs of the Kuwahara Wholesale business,
located at 8565 & 8575 South State Street. The Council gave staff some stated goals and
objectives that this request should address (see Council Office Memo dated November 3, 2020).
Staff prepared a draft of this proposed code amendment to create a new SD Zone known as the
SD(FM-HSN) - Historic Sandy Neighborhood Farmer’s Market and presented it to the Council on
February 2, 2021. The Council voted and directed staff to take this proposal throug the formal
review process for the eventual adoption of these changes.
Kuwahara Wholesale Rezone – ZONE-02-21-5995                                              Page - 2 -



The proposed application of this zone would be applied to approximately 1.48 acres in Historic
Sandy. The proposed zone change would allow for Kuwahara Wholesale to bring their site into
compliance with City Codes. It will still require Kuwahara to make some further improvements
and changes to their site to bring it into compliance, but it lessens some of the requirements that
they deemed burdensome or undesired. A full site plan process will need to take place before
those improvements can be made to ensure they are done in conformity with all city
requirements. It also identifies specific land uses, and an expansion of temporary uses that
allows them to use this property in a way that fits their business plan.

BACKGROUND
Kuwahara Wholesale has a long history on this site. This is a locally owned and operated
business. It has been growing and expanding over the past five (5) years. The City would like to
keep it at this location and allow it to continue to grow. In 2016, the City helped Kuwahara
through a rezone and a code amendment, and conditional use permit to get them on the path to
compliance with city code. In those intervening years the business has continued to expand and
exceed the requirements of the existing zone.

Their business model is a mix of permanent and temporary uses and does not fit well into either
category. After many discussions with the owners and a few of their own proposed code
amendments in 2019 that were not approved, the City has forged a middle ground with this
proposed code amendment. It would allow this business to continue to grow in such a way that
there is a clear path for the owners to
bring this site into full compliance
with all City regulations. Most of the
changes and alterations made to the
site in the past several years have not
been done through the City’s required
review processes and have been done
without permits. The City has been
working with this business to bring
them into conformity and legal status
during this period.

The subject area includes two (2)
parcels that are owned by Alex
Kuwahara, who is the owner of
Kuwahara Wholesale (see map). They
are located on the east side of State
Street in Historic Sandy. The property
is bordered by a variety of commercial
and residential uses and zones. To the
north, and south, the properties are
zoned CN(HSN) with commercial
businesses. To the east are residential
uses (single-family homes) zoned R-1-
7.5(HS). To the west are commercial
businesses that are in Midvale City.
Kuwahara Wholesale Rezone – ZONE-02-21-5995                                                   Page - 3 -


ANALYSIS
This area is part of the Historic Sandy Neighborhood and the adopted Master Plan describes the
intent of future land uses in this area. The intent for this State Street corridor was to
encourage business development along State Street.

Staff has determined that the requested change is in compliance with the City’s General Plan and
the Historic Sandy Neighborhood Plan. It is important to remember that this plan was written
based on the input and review of a steering committee that included members of the Historic
Sandy Neighborhood. By allowing this rezoning, it will allow for a local business to stay in
Historic Sandy and expand their operations. Staff believes that the resulting zone change would
be compatible with the surrounding area. The following Goals and Policies are examples of how
this rezoning may fulfill the overall objective of the General Plan:

GOAL: 1.0 PROVIDE ADEQUATE AND ACCESSIBLE COMMERCIAL SERVICE, TO MAXIMIZE
THE COMPATIBILITY OF COMMERCIAL AND RESIDENTIAL USES, AND TO INCREASE THE
EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES WITHIN SANDY CITY.

        1.1 Allow neighborhood-oriented shopping within the various communities of Sandy in
        locations of greatest accessibility and least impact on residential neighborhoods.

The characteristics of the Historic Sandy Neighborhood are important to the City and the
development of local business is part of the heritage and character of the area. This will provide
options for locally grown produce to be sold to residents of the neighborhood and greater area.
This action would not create an undue impact on the existing neighborhoods and the
investments made because of this action would help invigorate further investment by
surrounding commercial property owners in this commercial corridor.

STAFF RECOMMENDATIONS
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission forward a positive recommendation to the City
Council to rezone the subject property, located at 8565 S. & 8575 S. State Street, from CN(HSN)
“Neighborhood Commercial – Historic Sandy Neighborhood District” to the SD(FM-HSN) –
“Historic Sandy Neighborhood Farmer’s Market” based on the following findings:

1.      That the proposed rezoning is consistent with the Sandy City General Plan.

2.      The proposed rezoning is in compliance with the goals and policies of the Historic Sandy
        Neighborhood Plan.

3.      That the proposed rezoning will have no unmitigated negative impacts on the
        surrounding properties or the area.

4.      This rezone approval is subject to the associated code amendment to create the proposed
        SD (FM-HSN) Zone.

Planner:


Mike Wilcox - Zoning Administrator
File Name: S:\USERS\PLN\STAFFRPT\2021\ZONE-02-21-5995_KUWAHARA SD(FM-HSN)\STAFF REPORT.DOCX
