                                    MEMORANDUM
                                               January 21, 2021


   To:           Planning Commission
   From:         Community Development Department
   Subject:      General Plan Amendment – Transportation Master Plan                          GPA-12-20-5972
                 Updating the City’s Transportation Master Plan



HEARING NOTICE: This item has been noticed on public websites, in the newspaper, and mailed to
                affected entities.


REQUEST
The Community Development Department, at the request of the Public Works Department, is
proposing an amendment to the Sandy City General Plan by updating the Transportation Master
Plan.

BACKGROUND
Utah Code requires that the City’s
General Plan include a chapter
addressing transportation. In 2009, the
City adopted the Sandy City Master
Transportation Plan Update (July 2009)
to address transportation needs and as the
transportation chapter of the Sandy City
General Plan. In 2020, the Sandy City
Public Works Department hired the
consultant team of Avenue Consultants
and Parametrix to prepare an update to
the City’s Transportation Master Plan
and to replace the 2009 plan.

The proposed Sandy Transportation
Master Plan (2021) includes goals and
policies to guide future development and



1 0 0 0 0 CE NTE NNIA L PA RKW AY • SA NDY, UTA H 8 4 070 • PHO NE (80 1 ) 5 6 8-7 2 50 • W WW .SA NDY. UTA H. GOV
Transportation Master Plan General Plan Amendment – GPA-12-20-5972                        Page 2


improvements, an analysis of existing conditions, projections of future conditions, an outline of
the process to prepare the proposed plan, and a capital improvement plan that identifies projects
to be completed to accommodate transportation needs in the future. An additional study (Sandy
Downtown Transportation Master Plan), specific to The Cairns, was also conducted as a
supplement to the proposed Transportation Master Plan.

A project website (www.sandytmp.com) was created for the project. Information was made
available to the public through the website. A public survey was performed through the website,
and carried out over the summer of 2020. A public meeting was held by Zoom on October 14,
2020. The presentation for the public meeting was recorded, and is still available on the website.

The Capital Improvement Plan identifies approximately 70 projects. Projects are divided into four
classifications based on the proposed timeframe for completion of each project; Phase I (2021-
2029), Phase II (2030-2039), Phase III (2040-2050), and Development Related.
Transportation Master Plan General Plan Amendment – GPA-12-20-5972                        Page 3



FACTS AND FINDINGS
  • Utah Code requires that the City’s General Plan include a “transportation and traffic
     circulation element” that:
    1. Identifies current and proposed transportation facilities.
    2. Plans for development around major transit investment corridors, including
        “connections between housing, employment, education, recreation, and commerce.”
    3. “Correlates with the population, projections, the employment projections, and the
        proposed land use element of the general plan.”
                                                         (Utah Code 10-9a-403(2)(a)(ii))
  • Sandy City’s Transportation Master Plan, the transportation and traffic element of the
     General Plan, was last updated in 2009.
  • The proposed Sandy City Transportation Master Plan (2021) was prepared based on public
     engagement, analysis of existing conditions, projections of future conditions, consideration
     of other application plans (i.e., The Cairns Master Plan) and stakeholder input.
  • The proposed Sandy City Transportation Master Plan is intended to help guide future
     growth and development more generally through updating the transportation goals and
     policies of the General Plan and more specifically through projects identified in the Capital
     Improvement Plan.

STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission forward a positive recommendation to the City
Council to adopt the Sandy City Transportation Master Plan (2021), including the Sandy
Downtown Transportation Master Plan, as an amendment to the Sandy City General Plan.

ALTERNATIVES
  • Forward a positive recommendation of the proposed amendment to the City Council
  • Forward a negative recommendation of the proposed amendment to the City Council
  • Forward a recommendation proposing a modified amendment to the City Council
  • Table the decision




Planner:                                                      Reviewed by:


                                                               (reviewed 1/13/21)
Jake Warner                                                   Brian McCuistion
Long Range Planning Manager                                   Planning Director


File Name:     S:\USERS\PLN\STAFFRPT\2020\GPA-12-20-5972 Master Transportation Plan
