                               MEMORANDUM
                                          July 15, 2021


 To:          Planning Commission
 From:        Community Development Department
 Subject:     Derricott Subdivision (Preliminary Review)                SUB05172021-006052
              8566 S Johnsonway Dr.                                             Zone: R-1-8
              [Community #6 – High Point]                                          .45 Acres



HEARING NOTICE: This item has been noticed to property owners within 500 feet of the subject
                area, in addition to posting a sign on the property.



                                 PROPERTY CASE HISTORY
   Case Number                               Case Summary


DESCRIPTION OF REQUEST
The applicant, Daniel Derricott, is requesting preliminary review for a two-lot single family
subdivision. The applicant is not requesting any special exceptions or overlay zones with this
request.

BACKGROUND & SITE CONDITIONS
The subject property is approximately .45 acres in size and currently contains an existing
home, which will be demolished as part of the subdivision, and an existing barn which will
be mostly demolished, although he is proposing to keep a portion of it for the storage of
materials during subdivision development and home construction. New homes will then be
built on both Lot 1 and Lot 2. The property is in the R-1-8 zone and both lots will be
accessed from Johnsonway Dr. The property is bordered on the west and south by the Good
Shepherd Lutheran Church located in the R-1-8 zone. Across the street to the east, and also
to the north, the property is bordered by single family homes also located in the R-1-8 zone.

NOTICE
Derricott Subdivision – SUB05172021-006052                                           Page 2


Notices were mailed to property owners within a 500-foot radius of the subject property as per
Sandy City Land Development Code requirements, to notify them of the Planning Commission
meeting. A physical sign was also placed on the property. A neighborhood meeting was held
Wednesday, June 16, 2021. No residents attended the meeting.

SUBDIVISION ANALYSIS

Sec. 21-20-3. - Required Lot Size, Frontage Requirement
The R-1-8 zone is a single-family zone that requires lots to be at least 8,000 square feet in
size. The zone is a standard zone in the City, which means that all provisions for setbacks,
building height, lot frontage, lot size, etc. are all pre-determined by ordinance and must be
adhered to. The proposed plat conforms to the standards of the zone.

The property is currently located on an existing 50-foot right-of-way. The applicant will need
to dedicate one foot of property to Sandy City to make their half-width 26 feet, to comply
with the City standard 52-foot right-of-way profile. There is currently a four-foot-wide
sidewalk existing on the property. That will need to be removed and replaced with a five-
foot-wide sidewalk and a five-foot-wide parkstrip. The property line will be the back of
sidewalk.

STAFF CONCERNS
The applicant is proposing to demolish a large portion of the existing barn, which is currently
larger than what is allowable in the R-1-8 zone, while keeping a smaller portion of it for the
storage of construction materials while the subdivision is being developed and the homes
constructed. The barn appears to be very close to the property line, so a survey will need to show
that it is located at least two feet away from the north property line, with the eaves encroaching
no more than four inches into the two-foot setback. The size of the remaining structure may not
be larger than 750 square feet, which is the largest an accessory structure may be in the R-1-8
zone. It also must comply with the maximum height limit of 15 feet.

Finally, ordinance states that an accessory structure may not exist on a lot unless there exists a
primary dwelling which it is an accessory to. For that reason staff has added conditions of
approval explicitly stating that a building permit must be obtained within six months of
recordation of the plat, and also that a certificate of occupancy be obtained within one year of the
recordation of the plat. If either of these conditions are not met, then the remainder of the barn
will be required to be demolished. This will ensure the lot does not ultimately end up as an
illegal lot with an accessory structure, but with no primary dwelling.

Staff has prepared an affidavit for the applicant to sign to ensure compliance with Section 21-11-
02 of the Sandy City Land Development Code. If the Planning Commission is not comfortable
with the recommended time frame, a different time period can be stipulated in the affidavit. This
affidavit will be recorded at the Salt Lake County Recorder’s office.

STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission determine that preliminary review is
complete for the Derricott Subdivision, located at 8566 S. Johnsonway Dr., based on the
following findings and subject to the following conditions:
   Derricott Subdivision – SUB05172021-006052                                       Page 3



   Findings:
      1. That the proposed subdivision is an infill development.

      2. That the proposed lot configuration is an efficient use of the land.

      3. That the proposed lot sizes and frontages conform to the requirements of the R-1-8 zone.

      4. That the various City Departments and Divisions have preliminarily approved the
         proposed subdivision plat.

   Conditions:
      1. That the applicant complies with each department’s comments and redlines
         throughout the final review process and that all issues be resolved before the
         subdivision can be recorded.

      2. That all City provisions, codes and ordinances are adhered to during the
         review, construction, and operations process of this project, except as
         otherwise approved by waivers or special exceptions granted by the Planning
         Commission.

      3. That all residential lots comply with all requirements of the R-1-8 zone.

      4. That the applicant dedicate property along Johnsonway Dr. as required by the
         Public Works Department to ensure a half-width of 26 feet of right-of-way.

      5. That the remaining portion of the barn comply with all setback, height, and
         size requirements for the R-1-8 zone.

      6. That the applicant work with staff relative to the affidavit providing assurance
         that the existing detached structure and the timing of a future home comply
         with City Code within specific time frames.




Planner: ___________________________            Reviewed by: ___________________________
Craig Evans, Planner                            Brian McCuistion, Planning Director
