                                MEMORANDUM
                                        February 4, 2021


 To:          Sandy City Board of Adjustment
 From:        Community Development Department
 Subject:     Pearce Variance Request                                        BOA-01-21-5985
              3382 E. Deer Hollow Circle                                          1.45 Acres
              The Dell, Community #29                                      R-1-40A, SAO Zone


HEARING NOTICE: This item has been noticed to property owners within 500 feet of the subject
                area.



                                    PROPERTY CASE HISTORY
    Case Number                                     Case Summary
                         The Lone Springs Annexation added approximately 32.17 acres with 21
 ANEX-09-12-2542         parcels of mostly developed land into Sandy City and given the R-1-40A
                         Zone District on 12/14/2012.

REQUEST
The applicants, Trent and
Aubrey Pearce, have filed a
request with the Sandy City
Board of Adjustment for a
variance from the Land
Development Code. Specifically
they are requesting a variance
from section 21-28-3 of the
Land Development Code to
allow for a six-foot (6’) fence in
a portion of the front yard area.

The applicant has detailed their
request in the attached
“Applicant Letter”.
Pearce Variance Request – BOA-01-21-5985                                                            Page - 2 -


BACKGROUND
History
This lot was created through a subdivision that was approved in Salt Lake County in 2007. It
was later annexed into the City in 2012.

Physical Features
The property is heavily vegetated with natural stands of oak trees and has significant slopes.
The subject property is in an area with known areas with 30% or greater slope constraints and
earthquake fault zones. Studies have found that no other geologic concerns are applicable to this
proposal.

Parcel Features
The lot is irregularly shaped and is considered a corner lot with private streets on two (2) sides
of the lot. There are twenty-five-foot (25’) road easements along the north and east property
lines (total of fifty-foot (50’) wide private easements on either side of the road centerline).

NOTICE
Notices were mailed to property owners within a 500-foot radius of the subject parcel to notify
them of the Board of Adjustment meeting.

ORDINANCE SUMMARY
Applicants are requesting to vary from the terms of the following City ordinance(s):

Sec. 21-28-3. - Fences; Residential Standards.

(a)    Side Yards and Rear Yards. In any required side or rear yard on lots, the height of fences shall not
      exceed six feet, unless otherwise allowed herein.
(b)    Front Yards. Fences in required front yards shall be allowed provided that solid type fences shall not
      exceed three feet, and open type fences (e.g., wrought iron) shall not exceed four feet.
(c)    Corner Lots. In addition to the other provisions contained in this section, fences located on corner lots
      shall be subject to the following provisions:
      (1)    Any fence, wall, and/or hedge on the front yard setback shall not exceed three feet if opaque
            construction or four feet if open construction.
      (2)    In the side yard setback that fronts on a street, height up to six feet shall be allowed beyond 60
            feet from the intersection measured from the intersecting extended curb lines. Height within the
            60 foot area shall conform to the requirements of a front yard setback.

Illustration of a Common 60 Foot Sight Visibility Triangle




      (3)    A clear view zone shall be maintained free of fencing, except a see-through fence or a view
            obscuring fence no higher than three feet in height when a driveway exists on the adjacent lot
Pearce Variance Request – BOA-01-21-5985                                                            Page - 3 -


          within ten feet of the shared property line. The clear view zone refers to the portion of the corner
          lot lying within a triangular area formed by measuring back ten feet from the point where the
          interior property line shared with the adjacent lot meets the property line along the public right-of-
          way.




Fence Figure #1. Interior Lot Fence Height Restrictions




    (4)    Heights on the rear yard setback and interior side yard setback shall not exceed six feet, unless
          otherwise allowed herein.

Fence Figure #2. Corner Lot Fence Height Restrictions




LEGAL STANDARD TO BE MET AT PUBLIC HEARING
Utah Code Section 10-9a-702 and Sandy City Land Development Code, Section 21-35-2 set the
standards, or conditions, for approving a variance. The Board of Adjustment may grant a
variance only if ALL statutory conditions are met. If all five conditions are NOT MET, the Board
of Adjustment is compelled by law to deny the request for a variance.

The traditional conditions for approval of a variance can be stated as follows:

   1. Literal enforcement of the zoning ordinance would cause an unreasonable hardship for
      the applicant that is not necessary to carry out the general purpose of the zoning
      ordinance.
Pearce Variance Request – BOA-01-21-5985                                               Page - 4 -


   2. There are special circumstances attached to the property that do not generally apply to
      other properties in the same district.

   3. Granting the variance is essential to the enjoyment of a substantial property right
      possessed by other property in the same district.

   4. The variance will not substantially affect the general plan and will not be contrary to the
      public interest.

   5. The spirit of the zoning ordinance is observed and substantial justice done.

The State statute and City ordinance have added the following conditions when determining the
above factors which were stated in the Utah Supreme Court decision of Chambers v. Smithfield
City (714 P.2d 1133, Utah Supreme Court (1986)) :

   6. Is the hardship complained of economic in nature?

   7. Is the hardship complained of self-imposed?

REQUEST ANALYSIS
The applicants are seeking a variance from the fence height restriction on fencing within the
front yard area (see section 21-28-
3), which restricts fencing in the
front yard to fence heights to three
to four feet (3’ -4’) depending on
style of fence. Because this property
is a corner lot, it has two (2) street
frontages onto private streets. The
house faces onto the east street
frontage and that side is considered
the front yard area. The corner lot
fencing provisions in subsection (c)
would only allow the northern
corner side yard area to be fenced
(so long as it is outside of the sight
visibility triangle). The front yard
area would extend from the front
plane of the home, extended to the
north and south, and would need to
be set back a minimum of thirty-feet
(30’) from the front property line
(see diagram of the front yard area).
As mentioned, there is a twenty-five-
feet (25’) private road easement
along the entire north and east
property lines to allow for a private
road access. This area should not be
fenced because of the easement but
would be enforceable by the
Pearce Variance Request – BOA-01-21-5985                                                       Page - 5 -


easement owners of the road and not the city. The city would only enforce the provisions of our
code.

In staff’s opinion, the applicants have not yet addressed all seven (7) required standards and
conditions to approve each of the variances in their letter to the Board. Staff has not been
presented with any convincing evidence that the literal enforcement of the Code has created an
unreasonable hardship on the applicants. Usable yard area is not a substantial property right.
Some lots in the sensitive area overlay zone have smaller sized useable yard areas due to the
natural topography and restrictions of the code. They still have a usable yard area that can be
screened with six-foot (6’) fencing. A smaller space does not deny them a right that is enjoyed
by similarly situated properties. This lot is a corner lot, has an unusual shape, has many natural
features (such as earthquake fault area, steep slopes, natural vegetation tree stands, etc.), and is
impacted by sensitive area restrictions. However, those are not necessarily unique in this area
and not substantially impacted.

The stated reason for needing the variance on fence height is due to the desire to have a pool. A
pool is required to fence the yard area or the pool deck area with a six-foot (6’) fence (see section
21-11-10 for the full details). This issue is a self-imposed hardship which could be addressed by
altering the size or location of the pool within the side and rear yard area where 6’ fences are
allowed.

STAFF POSITION
The Board should carefully consider the conditions listed above before rendering a decision on
each of the requested variances (individually or collectively) and should follow the law as
outlined above. The applicants bear the burden of proof in showing that all of the conditions
justifying a variance have been met. Based upon our analysis of the letter requesting the
variances and the standards and conditions to grant a variance, we recommend to the Board of
Adjustment that it deny the requests as presented.

Planner:


Mike Wilcox, Zoning Administrator

File Name: S:\USERS\PLN\STAFFRPT\2021\BOA-01-21-5985_PEARCE FENCE VARIANCE\STAFF REPORT.DOCX


Notice to Applicants: Be prepared to discuss the criteria for a variance as mentioned above in your
presentation to the Board of Adjustment. Generally, the questionnaire you completed as part of the
variance application process requests the information which the Board needs to consider. However,
you may be aware of additional information that could be useful to the Board of Adjustment, which
you may wish to present orally or in writing at the public hearing.

NOTE: Any appeal of the decision of the Board of Adjustment must be made within thirty [30] days to
      the appropriate District Court of the State of Utah. The proper forms and procedure for filing
      such an appeal may be obtained from the District Court or the attorney of your choice. Sandy
      City DOES NOT have this information and cannot assist you in any way with the filing of any
      appeal of a Board of Adjustment decision. Copies of the case file, including all evidence
      submitted will be made available to interested parties. You may make a copy of the audio tape
      of the proceedings at our offices located at 10000 Centennial Parkway, suite 210, Sandy, Utah.
