                               MEMORANDUM
                                       November 18, 2021


 To:          Planning Commission
 From:        Community Development Department
 Subject:     The Ridges at Dimple Dell - (Preliminary                     SUB08052021-006127
              Subdivision & Special Exception Review)                      SPX11112021-006204
              1405 East 10600 South                                                MU, SAO Zone
              [Community #22]                                                6.04 Acres - 50 units


NOTICE: This item has been noticed to property owners within 500 feet of the subject area, posted on
        the property, and on the City and Utah Public Notice websites.


                                   PROPERTY CASE HISTORY
  Case Number                                         Case Summary
 R#03-13             The Garbett Rezone changed the zone of this subject property and the lands
                     that have been developed to the east, totaling 14.76 acres. The zone changed
                     from Professional Office (PO) to Mixed Use (MU). This was approved in
                     May of 2004.
 SPR#04-31           Previous Master Plan and site plan approval for the Village at Dimple Dell
                     project. It consisted of a mixture of townhomes, apartments/condos, retail, and
                     office space. The Planning Commission granted preliminary approval on May
                     19, 2005. This included a total of 173 residential units and 52,580 sq. ft. of
                     (commercial office/retail). This development was split into 2 phases. Only
                     Phase 1 proceeded to Final approval and built 70 townhomes. The second
                     phase was never constructed.
 S#06-18             A plat was recorded for phase 1 of the Village at Dimple Dell development
                     that created 70 units.

REQUEST
Brad Reynolds Construction has submitted an application for a subdivision review for the Ridges
at Dimple Dell, located at 1405 East 10600 South. This proposal would create a pad lot for the 49
townhome units and a lot for the commercial building and it’s associated parking on
approximately six (6) acres. This proposal also involves several special exception requests that
pertain to the site development plan and plat. Those requests include the following:
The Ridges at Dimple Dell – SUB08052021-006127 & SPX11112021-006204                                    Page - 2 -


   1. Lots without public frontage (41) (see sec. 21-21-21(b))
   2. Use of Private Streets/Mews/Alleys and pavement width less than 27’ (see sec. 21-21-
      11)

BACKGROUND
The proposed project is zoned Mixed Use (MU) and is also subject to the Sensitive Area Overlay
(SAO) zone. It is borded by the Village at Dimple Dell townhome project to the east (also zoned
MU). To the west is the Lone Peak Market and Canyon View Cleaners (zoned Community
Commercial (CC)). On the south side of the project are residential homes in the Bell Canyon Acres
subdivision (zoned SD(R-1-30A)). To the north, the property is borded by the Dimple Dell
Regional Park (zoned SD(OS)).

NOTICE
Notices were mailed to property owners within a 500-foot radius of the subject parcel to notify
them of the Planning Commission meeting. The city also held a neighborhood meeting on August
18, 2021. There were several questions and concerns raised during the meeting. A full report
from the meeting is attached to this report.

ANALYSIS
The MU zone doesn’t have a lot minimum or established setbacks. The applicant is proposing to
create forty-nine (49) pad lots for each townhome which will allow them to be sold individually.
A commercial lot will also be created so that this building and commercial use can be separated
from the rest of the homeowners association. There will need to be shared access and
maintenance responsibilities established through the covenants, conditions, and restrictions
(CCR’s).

The property is also subject to the Sensitive Area Overlay zone due to steep slopes that exceed
30% along the northern edge of the property that abuts Dimple Dell Park. The overlay ordinace
requires that all continuous natural areas of 30% or greater slope be protected and no structures
are allowed within an average setback of twenty feet (20’). This area is shown on the proposed
plat.

SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS
1. Lots without public frontage (41) (see sec. 21-21-21(b))
    Except as may be otherwise provided in this title, all lots shall have the required frontage upon a dedicated
    and improved street. Exceptions may include the following:
    (1) Residential building lots that do not have frontage upon a public street shall obtain a special exception
        from the Planning Commission as part of the preliminary review process.
Staff Analysis and Recommendation for #1
While public streets are the city preference, because this development is connecting to an
established pattern of private streets, staff and the City Engineer supports this request. The
internal streets will be built to a public standard following the TS-02 – Urban Connector design
profile (24’ pavement width). They are also proposing to utilize pedestrian streets and mews for
frontage and access. This is encouraged in the MU Zone to have these elements in the
development.

2. Use of Private Streets/Mews/Alleys and pavement width less than 27’ (see sec. 21-21-11)
The Ridges at Dimple Dell – SUB08052021-006127 & SPX11112021-006204                                      Page - 3 -


       (a) Public street systems shall be required for access to all residential dwellings, unless it is demonstrated
           by the developer that a public street cannot be constructed due to the following issues: Property width,
           connectivity (or the inability to connect to the existing street patterns), topographical concerns, overall
           subdivision design, utility connections, and the ability to provide service, which includes, but is not
           limited to, snow plowing, street sweeping, trash collection and overall street maintenance.
       (b) If a private street/lane/alley/pedestrian mew is allowed by the Planning Commission through a Special
           Exception, the private street/lane may not be counted toward the lots square footage to meet the
           minimum lot size of the zone. A Capital Reserve Study (as per the Condominium Ownership Act (U.C.A.
           1953, § 57-8-1 et seq.) and the Community Association Act (U.C.A. 1953, § 57-8a-101 et seq.) will be
           required and a Reserve Fund shall be established for the Homeowners' Association, based on the study,
           so that the street is continually maintained as designed. Street maintenance, sweeping and snow/trash
           removal is the responsibility of the Homeowners' Association.
       (c) A private street shall be designed and function similar to a public road. They shall provide frontage and
           access (guaranteed through a shared access easement) to each lot it serves. Either it must be designed
           to be owned commonly on its own parcel or the lots that front onto the street must own to the center
           of the road. Existing roads that provide access to legally subdivided lots, or lots of record, may be
           allowed to remain at current widths unless it does not meet current Fire Code standards. If it does not
           meet current fire standards, upon any new development application, the subject property will be
           required to comply with current development standards. The following regulations apply to all
           proposed new developments:
           (1) Approved private streets for access to residential dwelling structures shall have a 27-foot minimum
                 width paved surface (52-foot right-of-way). The Planning Commission may grant a special
                 exception to allow less than a 27-foot pavement width, after considering a recommendation from
                 the Director and City Engineer. They shall consider and evaluate the following criteria for a
                 narrower pavement width:
                     a. Existing site conditions, topography, improvements, etc.;
                     b. Compliance with International Fire Code requirements and water availability;
                     c. Number of lots based on zoning;
                     d. Lot dimensions including frontage;
                     e. Flood control and storm drain;
                     f. Public utilities;
                     g. The proposal equitably balances the needs of the public and presents the most efficient
                          use of land;
                     h. The potential negative impacts created by the exception(s); and
                     i. The cumulative effect of all the waivers and other exceptions requested for the
                          development.

Staff Analysis and Recommendation for #2
As mentioned above, private streets are a result of a continuation of the existing street pattern
established in the adjacent project. The internal streets will be built to a public standard
following the TS-02 – Urban Connector design profile. This road profile was designed for
developments like this that are in the Mixed Use zone, have dedicated on-street parking, and
promote pedestrian connectivity. The Mixed Use zone encourages rear loaded units and the use
of alleys. Pedestrian mews are encouraged in the zone as well if the units can’t front a public
street. This development has an appropriate mix of these alternatives to public streets and meets
the criteria and circumstances outlined in the code.

CONCERNS
Staff has the following concerns regarding this proposal as submitted by the applicant:
    1. 30% Slope Area. All areas that exceed 30% slope need to be shown on the plat, including
        areas that are adjacent (20-30’ from the property line). All the proposed units meet the
        setback criteria from this protected slope area except for units 14 and 15. The applicant
     The Ridges at Dimple Dell – SUB08052021-006127 & SPX11112021-006204                    Page - 4 -


           is planning to alter the footprint and design of those units to accommodate the setback
           requirement.
        2. Reciprocal Access and Maintenance. Reciprocal access and maintenance agreements are
           needed between the Village at Dimple Dell HOA and this HOA. A cross access for
           pedestrian and vehicular access is also needed between this development and the
           commercial area to the west. Internal to this development a shared parking and
           maintenance agreement is needed if the commercial property owner is not part of their
           CCR’s.

     STAFF RECOMMENDATION
#1   Staff recommends that the Planning Commission approve the special exceptions for lots without
     public frontage, use of Private Streets/Mews/Alleys, and pavement width less than 27’ for the
     property located at 1405 East 10600 South, based on the following findings and conditions:

     Findings:

        1. The development is connecting to an established network of private streets.

        2. The development pattern created is consistent with and encouraged by the
           requirements of the Mixed Use zone.

        3. The City Engineer and Community Development Director recommend approval of the
           special exceptions.

     Conditions:

        1. That a capital reserve study be provided and a reserve fund established for the
           development.

        2. That “no parking signs” be placed along road and alleys where parking is to be
           restricted.


#2   Staff recommends that the Planning Commission determine that the Preliminary Subdivision
     review is complete for the Ridges at Dimple Dell located at approximately 1405 East 10600
     South, based upon the following findings and subject to the following conditions:

     Findings:

        1. The proposed plat meets all underlying requirements of the MU zone.

        2. That the various City Departments and Divisions have preliminarily approved the
           proposed subdivision plat.

     Conditions:

        1. That the applicant complies with each department’s comments and redlines throughout
           the final review process and that all issues be resolved before the subdivision can be
The Ridges at Dimple Dell – SUB08052021-006127 & SPX11112021-006204                                Page - 5 -


        recorded.

    2. That all City provisions, codes, and ordinances are adhered to during the review,
       construction and operations process of this project.

    3. That all protected slope areas are properly shown on the plat (including areas within
       20-30’ from the property line).

    4. That all lots comply with all requirements of the Sensitive Area Overlay Zone, including
       that all buildings must be set back at least an average of 20 feet from any 30 percent or
       greater slope areas, with no part being located closer than 10 feet to it. That units 14 and
       15 pad site areas be revised to meet the minimum setback of an average 20’ from the
       protected slope area.

    5. A private homeowners association shall be established to ensure maintenance of the
       private road and all other common assets or other areas of maintenance for the
       development. A note shall be included on the plat to provide public notice of said HOA
       and maintenance requirements. The developer shall provide a capital reserve study and
       establish a reserve fund for the HOA.

    6. That cross access and maintenance agreements mentioned in staff concerns be
       completed and recorded with this plat or prior to its recording.

    7. That any additional public road dedication as determined necessary by staff be shown
       with this plat.



Planner:




Mike Wilcox
Zoning Administrator

File Name: S:\USERS\PLN\STAFFRPT\2021\SUB08052021-006065_RIDGES AT DIMPLE DELL\STAFF REPORT.DOCX
