                                                                                          10000 South Centennial

                                      Sandy City                                          Parkway Suite 231
                                                                                          Sandy, UT 84070

                                     Council Office                                       O| 801-568-7141
                                                                                          sandy.utah.gov




                                             MEMORANDUM

                                               July 13, 2021

To:       Sandy City Council Members

CC:       Kurt Bradburn, Mayor
          Mike Applegarth, Council Executive Director

From:     Council Member Cyndi Sharkey, Council Chair

Subject: Candidate Financial Disclosures and Ranked Choice Voting




INTRODUCTION

On April 20th, the Sandy City Council voted to participate in the Ranked Choice Voting Pilot Program for
the 2021 municipal election (Exhibit “A”). During the discussion and analysis leading up to the Council
vote, the issue of financial disclosures was touched upon, and a question was raised: Should Candidate
Financial Disclosures be adjusted because of the adoption of RCV?

The purpose of this agenda item is to consider the issue of Candidate Financial Disclosures, evaluate
certain data and concepts, and decide the matter in advance of candidate filing.

After the Council’s final vote confirming Sandy City’s participation in the RCV pilot program, the Sandy
City Recorders Office gave notice of the City’s intent to opt-in on April 22nd, as per State Statute. While
the Utah RCV pilot program began on January 1, 2019, and will run until January 1, 2026, Sandy City’s
resolution specifies participation only in the 2021 election.

Like many other cities participating in RCV, the Council voted to take the usual path of eliminating the
primary election and instead ranking candidates by preference on the general election ballot.
Elimination of the primary saved taxpayers’ money and delayed the candidate filing period until August
10th through the 17th. Eliminating the primary election also eliminated candidate financial disclosure
dates tied to the cancelled primary election.

Currently the Sandy candidates will face the following 2021 election deadlines:

      •   August 10-17 – Candidate Filing Period
      •   October 11 - First Candidate Financial Disclosure Due
      •   October 26 – Second Candidate Financial Disclosure Due
    •   November 2 – General Election Day
    •   December 2 – Final Candidate Financial Disclosure Due

The question before the Council is whether further changes should be made to Candidate financial
Disclosure deadlines in the upcoming election.

RESEARCH AND ANALYSIS

While considering this issue, I asked for opinions, analysis, and expertise from state, legal, and policy
perspectives.

Stan Lockhart of Utah Ranked Choice Voting gathered information from local and national RCV
advocates to explore the idea of whether the adoption of RCV and the resulting delay of candidate filing
dates tended to trigger a change to candidate financial disclosure dates. This was his response:

        “Some ranked choice voting cities have experimented with different rules for the timing of
        campaign finance disclosures. It is worth noting that in many cases existing campaign finance
        disclosures are adequate. For example, Payson and Vineyard didn't change their campaign finance
        disclosure rules when they went to ranked choice voting two years ago. In other cases, additional
        disclosures are a non-issue, as campaigns don't begin fundraising as early without a primary
        election.”

City Attorney Lynn Pace was asked to provide a legal opinion on whether the City can legally require a
candidate to file a campaign financial disclosure prior to the date that candidate officially files a
declaration of candidacy. Mr. Pace’s analysis and conclusion follow:

        Discussion: Utah Code section 10-3-208 addresses the issue of campaign disclosure in municipal
        elections. That section generally requires a candidate to file campaign finance disclosures 7 days
        before and 30 days after a primary or general election. (Subsection 3.) A municipality may also
        impose requirements that are more stringent than the State requirements. (Subsection 2.) The
        term "candidate" is defined as a person who (a) has filed a declaration of candidacy; or (b) who
        receives or spends funds to bring about someone's election to office. (Subsection 1(c).) Thus, if
        someone is accepting or expending funds for a campaign, they become a candidate even before
        they have filed a declaration of candidacy.

        State law also requires that the municipal recorder notify each candidate of the campaign
        finance disclosure requirements, including all dates and penalties, at the time the candidate files
        a declaration of candidacy, and again 14 days before the general election. (Subsection 7.) One
        of the penalties for failing to timely file a campaign finance disclosure requirement is that the
        candidate shall be removed from the ballot. (Subsection 9.) Although the statute does not
        specifically address the issue, it is clear that if a municipality imposed an earlier date for filing
        campaign finance reports, the municipality would be obligated to notify candidates of those
        obligations in advance.

        It is well established, under the principles of due process and the State Code, that we cannot
        impose a campaign finance disclosure requirement upon candidates unless we first notify them



                                             Memorandum Page 2
        of what those requirements are. In Bivens v Salt Lake City Corporation, 416 P.3d 338 (Utah
        2017), the Utah Supreme Court stated, "the core question in any due process challenge to the
        adequacy of notice is ... whether it reasonably apprises the prospective litigant of the 'essential
        information' she needs to assert her rights." Id. at para. 30. In the present case, if the City were
        to impose earlier campaign finance disclosure deadlines, all candidates would be entitled to this
        essential information before being penalized for failing to meet those requirements.

        However, since we do not know who is or is not a candidate prior to the filing of a declaration of
        candidacy, our ability to identify and notify candidates of our campaign finance disclosure rules,
        as required by due process and State law, is inadequate. For example, at present we are
        generally aware of several individuals who have announced that they will be candidates for the
        office of Mayor of Sandy City. However, there may be many more individuals who are also
        candidates because they are collecting or spending campaign funds, but who have not yet made
        any announcement of their candidacy. It is well established, under the principles of equal
        protection, that we cannot treat one candidate different from another. In Gallivan v Walker, 54
        P.3d 1069 (Utah 2002), the Utah Supreme Court stated that "the Equal Protection Clause
        requires states generally to treat voters similarly and not to unreasonably subject voters to
        disparate treatment." Id. at para. 68. Likewise, I am confident that a court would rule that
        Sandy City is required to treat candidates similarly and cannot unreasonably subject candidates
        to disparate treatment. For that reason, we cannot impose earlier campaign finance disclosure
        deadlines only on the candidates who have publicly announced their candidacy, and not upon
        others. Thus, if the Council were to impose an earlier campaign disclosure deadline, it would
        need to be imposed upon all candidates, announced or unannounced, and all candidates would
        be subject to the penalty (removal from the ballot) if they fail to file that report timely.

        Conclusion: In summary, the City is obligated to treat all candidates equally, and is obligated to
        provide all candidates adequate notice of any campaign finance disclosure requirements
        imposed. However, there is no practical way for the City to determine who is or is not a
        candidate prior to the date that an individual files a declaration of candidacy, or to provide those
        unknown candidates with the notification required. As such, it is my opinion that the City cannot
        legally impose campaign finance disclosure requirements prior to the date that a candidate files
        a declaration of candidacy without violating the due process and equal protection laws.


Council Office Staff conducted a survey of all municipalities who opted in to the RCV pilot program in
Utah (Exhibit “B”). Data was collected regarding existing financial disclosure deadlines, and city
representatives were asked whether any changes were adopted or anticipated due the use of RCV. No
municipality reported making changes due to adopting RCV, nor reported an intent to make changes.
(Note: data for two towns, Newton and Genola, was not able to be collected, either due to an inability
to reach town representatives or lack of information). Data collected for each municipality is shown in
the table attached.

Sandy is one of 26 Utah municipalities that have chosen to use RCV in the upcoming election. As the
table shows, only one municipality in this group of 26 requires more candidate financial disclosures than
Sandy: Elk Ridge in Utah County. State law dictates one disclosure before an election and one after, but




                                             Memorandum Page 3
Sandy requires two before an election and one after. Additionally, Sandy requires one additional
disclosure each January for all sitting elected officials.

When asked for her expert opinion on this issue, Sandy City Recorder Wendy Downs, expressed some
concern that changing financial disclosure deadlines may cause additional confusion amongst candidates
for office. She stated:

        “With RCV potentially being a onetime thing, I worry that we will confuse candidates if we
        change anything. I would hate for a candidate to get confused on the dates and then not get
        their disclosure turned in on time and be disqualified from the race.”

SUMMARY AND CONCLUSION

The data and analysis collected by the City Legal Team, the Council Office Staff, and Mr. Lockhart of Utah
Ranked Choice Voting combined with the expert opinion of the City Recorder clearly summarize the fact
that there is no apparent reason to change city law regarding candidate financial disclosures.

In short:

    1. Sandy City already requires more candidate financial disclosures than all but one city in the
       group of cities participating in RCV in this upcoming election.
    2. Sandy City has opted into the Ranked Choice Voting Pilot for only one municipal election, and a
       change in City law or code would encompass all future elections in Sandy City, even if the
       Council opts out of the RCV pilot program after this year.
    3. State law requires one candidate financial disclosure prior to and after an election, yet Sandy
       City already exceeds the minimum requirement and requires an additional disclosure prior to
       the election.
    4. No other city participating in the RCV Pilot in 2021 has chosen to or expressed an intent to alter
       or increase financial disclosure deadlines because of their participation in RCV.
    5. Changing financial reporting deadlines for the 2021 election may breed unnecessary confusion
       for candidates.

In conclusion, the data and opinions in this analysis suggest no reason to change city law regarding
candidate financial disclosures for one election cycle under a State-authorized test. The elimination of
the primary election and the withdrawal of previous financial disclosure deadlines associated with that
election is not uncommon and in fact can occur in any election type, and therefore does not necessitate
changes to financial disclosure deadlines for the remaining general election. In all regards, the State and
local mandates will be satisfied to provide voters with the information available and needed to cast
informed votes.




                                            Memorandum Page 4
 Exhibit “A”


(On Next Page)




Memorandum Page 5
DocuSign Envelope ID: CA519A4F-C48C-40EA-94BF-2B6968674E02




                                                      RESOLUTION 21-15C


                    A RESOLUTION REQUESTING INCLUSION OF SANDY CITY IN THE
                  MUNICIPAL ALTERNATE VOTING METHODS PILOT PROJECT FOR 2021



           WHEREAS, the State of Utah by its State Legislature has made available a pilot project for
           participation in the alternate voting methods for municipal elections beginning January 1, 2019 and
           ending on January 1, 2026; and

           WHEREAS, House Bills 35 and 75 as passed during the 2018 and 2021 General Sessions
           respectively, allow municipalities to conduct nonpartisan races using ranked choice voting in
           accordance with the requirements of 20A-4 of the Utah Code and all other applicable provisions of
           law, during any odd-numbered year that the pilot project is in effect; and

           WHEREAS, the Sandy City Council, on or before May 10, 2021, must provide written notice to the
           lieutenant governor and county clerk stating that the municipality intends to participate in the pilot
           project for the year specified in the notice; and

           WHEREAS, Sandy City desires to contract with Salt Lake County to conduct municipal elections
           and does have the resources and capability necessary to participate in the pilot project; and

           WHEREAS, the Sandy City Council finds that it would be in the best interest of Sandy City and of
           its citizens to hold its 2021 municipal elections by ranked choice voting,

           NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF SANDY CITY AS
           FOLLOWS:

               1. That the Sandy City Council adopts ranked choice voting for the 2021 municipal general
                   election, and that by this resolution, gives notice to the Lieutenant Governor and to the Salt
                   Lake County Clerk to enter the pilot project by use of ranked choice voting for its 2021
                   municipal general election, and

               2. Sandy City will not hold a primary election in 2021, and

               3. City Administration is hereby authorized and directed to do all things necessary to cause
                   the 2021 Sandy City municipal elections to be held in accordance with the ranked choice
                   voting process.


           PASSED AND APPROVED by the Sandy City Council this 20th day of April 2021.




                                                                    1

                                                             Memorandum Page 6
DocuSign Envelope ID: CA519A4F-C48C-40EA-94BF-2B6968674E02




                                                                 ______________________________________
                                                                 Cyndi Sharkey, Chair
                                                                 Sandy City Council


           ATTEST:



           ____________________________
           City Recorder




                                                                    2

                                                             Memorandum Page 7
                                                                            Exhibit "B"


                          Candidate Financial Disclosure Deadlines for 2021: Cities and Towns Participating in RCV
                                  Primary Election (August 10)****                          General Election (November 2)                Other
City/Town               Deadline 1 Deadline 2 Deadline 3         Deadline 4       Deadline 1 Deadline 2 Deadline 3 Deadline 4            Deadline 1   Deadline 2
Bluffdale               August 3    September 9                                   October 26 December 2
Cottonwood Heights      August 3    September 9                                   October 26 December 2
Draper                  August 3    September 9                                   October 26 December 2
Elk Ridge               June 27     August 3      September 9 October 9           October 19 October 26 December 2 January 2
Genola
Goshen                  August 3     September 9                                  October 26    December 2
Heber                   August 3     September 9                                  October 26    December 2
Lehi                    August 3     September 9                                  October 26    December 2
Magna                   August 3     September 9                                  October 26    December 2
Midvale                 August 3     September 9                                  October 26    December 2
Millcreek               August 3     September 9                                  October 26    December 2
Moab                    August 3     September 9                                  October 26    December 2
Newton
Nibley                  August 3     September 9                                  October 26    December 2
Payson                  August 3     September 9                                  October 26    December 2                               30 Days**
River Heights           August 3     September 9                                  October 26    December 2
Riverton                August 3     September 9                                  October 26    December 2
Salt Lake City          August 3     September 9                                  October 26    December 2                               July 1      February 15***
Sandy                   July 19      August 3    September 9                      October 11    October 26 December 2                    January 15*
South Salt Lake         August 3     September 9                                  October 26    December 2
Springville             August 3     September 9                                  October 26    December 2
Vineyard                August 3     September 9                                  October 26    December 2
Woodland Hills          August 3     September 9                                  October 26    December 2

State Requirement
                        August 3     September 9                                  October 26 December 2
for all elections:

Notes:
Green lettering indicates a disclosure that is in addition to any required by the State of Utah
*Sitting elected officials only
**If a candidate receives contributions or makes expenditures after the date of the last filing, an additional campaign finance statement shall be filed within 30 days
of receiving the
***Do not have to file this disclosure if candidate files a termination report with City Recorder
****These dates are only required if the entity is holding a primary election



                                                                                    Memorandum Page 8
