                               MEMORANDUM
                                         March 18, 2021


 To:          Planning Commission
 From:        Community Development Department
 Subject:     Thackeray Towns Site Plan (Preliminary Site Plan                 SPR-06-20-5868
              Review)                                                                4.0 Acres
              10760 S. 700 E.                                                         PUD(10)
              [Community #11 – Crescent]


HEARING NOTICE: This item has been noticed to property owners within 500 feet of the subject
                area. A sign was also posted on the property.




                                  PROPERTY CASE HISTORY
    Case Number                                     Case Summary
  SPR #77-15            Reams Market – Site Plan Approval
  SPR #78-31            Reams Addition – Site Plan Approval
  CUP #92-10            Reams Conditional Use Approval
  SPR #92-20            Ream’s Grocery Store – Site Plan Approval
                        Villas at Southtowne Rezone from CN to PUD(10) approved in October
  ZONE-5-19-5655
                        2019
  SUB-08-19-5699        Lot Line Adjustment Approved August 29, 2019

REQUEST
The applicant, The Thackeray Company, is requesting preliminary site plan review for a proposed
40-unit development consisting of 12 single-family homes and 28 townhomes. The subject
property is zoned PUD (10).

BACKGROUND
The subject property is 4.0 acres in size and currently consists of one (1) parcel. The property is
currently vacant, and is south of the former Reams grocery store.
Thackeray Towns Site Plan – SPR-06-20-5868                                               Page - 2 -


The subject property is zoned PUD (10). To the north is the site of the future Challenger School
in the CN zone (Planned Center – Neighborhood District). To the west are single-family homes
in the R-1-10 zone. To the south are single-family homes in the SD(R-1-8) PUD zone. To the east
is 700 E. Across the street are multi-family units located in the RM (12) zone, and also homes in
a PUD (8) zone.

NOTICE
Notices were mailed to property owners within a 500-foot radius of the subject parcel to notify
them of the Planning Commission meeting. A sign was also posted on the property. The applicant
held a neighborhood meeting on July 7, 2020. Notices (106) were sent for the neighborhood
meeting, and there were 16 attendees. Several questions and concerns were raised during the
meeting. A full summary from the meeting is attached to this report.

ANALYSIS

Site Design:
The PUD Zone gives the Planning Commission the ability to set the lot size, density, and
configuration of a proposed development. There are site design principles that must be followed
such as a requirement to provide at least 40% open space and homes that front on a public street.

The applicant is proposing a total of 40 units, which consist of 12 single-family homes and 28
townhome units. The proposed layout of the units conform to the standards of the PUD (10) zone.
The proposal centers on orienting the two buildings on the east toward 700 E. These will have
rear loaded two-car garages with full 20-foot driveways. All of the townhome units in the center
of the development (20 units) would have rear loaded 2-car garages with no driveway. These
would be accessed via a 24-foot wide alley. All the single-family units would have two-car front
loaded garages with room for a 2-car driveway for guest parking.

This results in a density of 10 units per acre. The proposed front setback of these east buildings
would be 20 feet from the front property line along 700 E. The rear setback of the southern units
are at least 20 feet from the south property line. However, most of the units are being proposed
with an optional covered rear patio which would then make the setback 13.8 feet. (See concern
#4)

Along the west property line, the rear setbacks are more than 20 feet, although one unit has an
optional covered rear patio which, if the buyer chose, would make the setback 13.8 feet from the
west property line. The side setbacks are five (5) feet, resulting in 10 feet between each single-
family home.

Access:
The access comes from a 52-foot public street on the north, that is accessed from 700 E. The street
will also serve the future Challenger School to the north. There is only one primary point of
ingress/egress from 700 E.
Thackeray Towns Site Plan – SPR-06-20-5868                                                   Page - 3 -


Architecture:
The Planning Commission is required to review and approve the building elevations for all
projects utilizing the PUD zone. Sandy City ordinance reads as follows: ”Building
Materials: Building materials, roofing materials, and building design shall be reviewed and
approved by the Planning Commission. High-quality exterior materials shall be used,
including brick, stone, synthetic stucco, prefinished panel, composite materials, or other
materials of similar quality, durability, and low maintenance.”

The applicant has proposed units that make use of board and batten vertical siding, however
there is a lot of stucco used as well (see elevation sheets accompanying this staff report). The
single-family home designs make good use of dormers, and of changing the look of the homes
enough to differentiate them and add variety to the development. Regarding the townhomes,
there is only one plan shown to be used for the four 5-plexes at the center of the development.
There is a lack of architectural variety. The Planning Commission, should it choose to do so, can
add an extra condition of approval regarding the architectural design of the townhome units..

Parking:
All units will have two-car garages. All units on the outer perimeter of the project will have two-
car driveways which will accommodate guest parking. The 20 units in the middle of the
development will not have driveways to accommodate guest parking. Sandy City Code section
21-24-8(b) states the following calculation is to be used for guest parking:

 Land Use Category                                   Space Requirements
 Guest parking                                       2-car off street parking in the dwelling’s
                                                     driveway is required. Alternatively, 0.25
                                                     spaced per unit after a base of 1 per unit for
                                                     the first 5 units if provided in an off-street
                                                     parking lot.

Using this calculation, five (5) spaces are needed for the first five (5) of the 20 units. After that
.25 spaces per unit are required for each of the 15 remaining townhomes, which comes to 3.75
spaces. This calculates to a total of 8.75 guest spaces required, and the site plan shows nine
guest parking spaces. The proposed site plan meets the parking requirement as laid out in the
ordinance.

Landscaping:
The plan proposes 40.4 percent (1.62 acres) of total open space. Sandy City’s PUD ordinance
requires at least 40 percent of the gross development size. This open space proposal meets that
requirement. The developer would install all site landscaping, including turf, bushes, and trees.
The amenities offered within the open space include a picnic table and a tot lot with slides and
swings. Staff would recommend a pergola that covers the picnic table and/or bbq pits or other
usable amenities as well.

CONCERNS
Staff has the following concerns regarding this proposal as submitted by the applicant:
Thackeray Towns Site Plan – SPR-06-20-5868                                            Page - 4 -


   1. Drainage. The applicant’s proposal contains 12 single-family lots. In their initial
      proposal they were not proposing to plat each individual unit. For that reason, the
      originally proposed open space around these single-family homes could be used for
      storm water management. Now the applicant is proposing to plat each individual lot
      and there is no common open space adjacent to the single-family homes. For this
      reason, each single-family lot will need to handle its own drainage, or else a new
      grading and drainage plan will need to be created to account for the individual lots
      and to ensure that the retention does not interfere with fencing locations.
   2. Formation of HOA. The applicant needs to ensure that there is an HOA, or similar
      organization, in place to govern the common area of the development. A reserve
      study will need to be provided and a reserve fund will need to be established. The
      applicant has informed staff that an HOA will be created.
   3. The preliminary plat shows the alley serving the townhome building at the southeast
      as being only 22 feet wide. This needs to be increased to 24 feet. Also, the plat shows
      the alley as extending all the way to the south property line, although all other plans
      show it terminating in line with the southern end of the townhome units fronting 700
      E. This alley does not need to extend to the south property line.
   4. There is a 20-foot irrigation easement that runs along the south property lines. The
      townhome building to the southeast falls slightly into that easement. Additionally,
      the optional rear covered patios fall partially within that easement as well. The
      applicant will need to work with Water Pro regarding what the restrictions are
      regarding this irrigation line. Water Pro will need to be a required signature block on
      the final plat.
   5. Staff believes that there are not enough high-quality materials being used on the
      architectural plans for the homes, and especially the townhomes, both of which rely
      on very liberal use of stucco. The architectural elevations are attached to this staff
      report. Staff would recommend that the applicant work with staff regarding the
      building materials in order to provide more high-quality building materials. If a
      consensus cannot be reached, the materials will come back before the Planning
      Commission for final approval.
   6. The building elevations provided do not appear to be to scale, and it is unclear
      whether every townhome building meets the 35-foot height requirement. If the
      Planning Commission determines that preliminary review is complete, scaled and
      labeled drawings need to be provided to ensure no building stands above 35 feet tall
      as part of final review. Failure to provide this will result in the applicant being unable
      to obtain a building permit for these buildings.
   7. Approved road names (by Salt Lake County) will need to be provided by the applicant
      and labeled on the plat and site plan before final approval can be granted.
   8. The masonry wall being constructed by Challenger School along their west
      property line extends part way across the rear yard of the neighbor who borders
      this project on the northwest corner. Staff recommends that the Planning
      Commission consider extending that wall all the way along the west property line of
      this project to maintain aesthetic continuity, or alternatively at least across the
      northwest neighbor’s rear yard to avoid having two fence/wall types converge in
      the middle of their rear yard. Also, the applicant has not indicated what their plans
      for walls or fencing are for this site. They will need to provide clarification on that
Thackeray Towns Site Plan – SPR-06-20-5868                                        Page - 5 -


      to ensure it is appropriate for this PUD. Staff would recommend that the applicant
      work with the adjacent property owners to the south regarding the installation of a
      new solid vinyl fence to replace the wooden fences along the south property line.

STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff Recommends that the Planning Commission determine that preliminary site plan
review is complete for the Thackeray Towns Site Plan, located at 10760 S. 700 E., based
on the following findings and subject to the following conditions:

Findings:

   1. The subdivision configuration, as proposed, meets the standards required by the
      PUD (10) zone, save for the three special exceptions being requested.

   2. The density being proposed meets the maximum allowable density of 10 units per
      acre.

Conditions:

   1. That the applicant complies with each department’s comments and redlines
      throughout the final review process and that all issues be resolved before the
      subdivision can be recorded.

   2. That all City provisions, codes and ordinances are adhered to during the review,
      construction, and operations process of this project.

   3. That all lots comply with all requirements of the PUD (10) zone or as modified or
      approved by the Planning Commission.

   4. That the maximum density of the development be limited to 40 (10 units per acre)
      units on this site.

   5. That the applicant work with staff regarding the building materials in order to
      provide more high quality building materials. If a consensus cannot be reached, the
      elevations and materials will need to come back before the Planning Commission for
      final approval.

   6. That a private homeowners association be established to ensure common area
      maintenance for the development. That a note be included on the plat to provide
      public notice of said HOA and maintenance requirements. The developer shall
      provide a capital reserve study and establish a reserve fund for the HOA.

   7. That the driveway on the southeast portion of the development be modified from 22
      feet wide to 24 feet wide. This alley shall terminate in line with the southern end of
      the townhome units fronting 700 E.
Thackeray Towns Site Plan – SPR-06-20-5868                                            Page - 6 -


   8. A revised grading and drainage plan be submitted to ensure that water is
      maintained on each individual single-family lot meeting all City standards.

   9. No building shall exceed 35 feet measured to the peak of the roof according to Sandy
      City Code.

   10. Approved road names (by Salt Lake County) to be provided by the applicant and
       labeled on the plat and site plan as part of final review.

   11. The approved setbacks shall be: front: 20-feet, side: 10-feet between single-family
       dwellings and rear setbacks of 20-feet on the west (with an option of a covered patio
       to come as close as 13.5’) and south boundaries with no structures (temporary or
       permanent) over the 20-foot irrigation easement on the south property line.
       Townhome setbacks shall be a minimum of 20-feet from 700 E. and 20-feet from
       other front property lines.

   12. That the applicant work with Water Pro relative to possible relocation of their
       pressurized irrigation line. Water Pro shall be a required signature block on the final
       subdivision plat.

   13. The Planning Commission consider extending the masonry wall along the west
       property line of this project to maintain aesthetic continuity, or alternatively at least
       across the northwest neighbor’s rear yard to avoid having two fence/wall types
       converge in the middle of their rear yard.

   14. That the applicant work with the adjacent property owners to the south regarding
       the installation of a new solid vinyl fence to replace the wooden fences along the
       south property line. If this is not an option, the applicant will need to provide
       fencing details for final review with the Planning Commission.

   15. That this project come back for final review, unless otherwise determined by the
       Planning Commission.



Planner:                                           Reviewed by:




Craig P. Evans                                     Brian McCuistion
Planner                                            Planning Director
