                                 MEMORANDUM
                                          September 16, 2021


 To:           Planning Commission
 From:         Community Development Department
 Subject:      The Orchard at Farnsworth Farms – PUD(10)                                SPR06282021-
               (Preliminary Site Plan Review)                                                 006089
               11237 S. 700 East.                                                          9.99 Acres
               Community #11, Crescent                                                       96 units


HEARING NOTICE: This item has been noticed to property owners within 500 feet of the subject area. A
                   physical sign was also posted on the property.


                                  PROPERTY CASE HISTORY
   Case Number                                      Case Summary
 ZONE-03-20-5825         Conditionally Rezoned to PUD(10) by City Council on November 10, 2020

REQUEST
Mr. Joe Salisbury, of DAI, has submitted an application for a preliminary site plan review of a
proposed PUD development called The Orchard at Farnsworth Farms. The proposal is to be built
on approximately 9.99 acres. These residences are proposed to be built using three different
styles of 4-plexes, one style of 5-plex, one style of 6-plex, one style of twin home, and then a red
barn architecture for the clubhouse.

BACKGROUND
The proposed project is located along 700 East and and approximately 11200 South. It was
conditionally zoned by the City Council as PUD(10) (see Ordinance 20-04). It is bordered by the
Crescent Heights PUD condominium project to the north. To the west are single family homes in
the R-1-10 zone. To the south, and to the east across 700 East, the property is bordered by single
family homes in the R-1-8 zone. Because the zone is conditional, your review will be based on the
conditional zone, PUD(10), and your action will be conditional upon publication of Ordinance 20-
04.
The Orchard at Farnsworth Farms – SPR06282021-006089                                      Page - 2 -


NOTICE
Notices were mailed to property owners within a 500-foot radius of the subject parcel to notify
them of the Planning Commission meeting. Additionally, a physical sign was posted on the
property. The applicant also held a neighborhood meeting on July 26, 2021. There were several
questions and concerns raised during the meeting. A full report from the meeting is attached to the
subdivision staff report (application# SUB06282021-006091)

ANALYSIS

Overview:
This development of 96 residential units is proposed to be built out as a single development in
regards to the infrastructure. Individual buildings will be built out over time, and landscaping
improvements will be completed as they complete construction in an area. There are six types
of units being proposed: three styles of 4-plexes, one style of 5-plexes, one style of 6-plexes, and
one style of twin homes. The clubhouse is proposed to be built using a red barn style. A number
of the dwelling units are oriented to proposed pedestrian streets (mews) and serviced with a
series of alleys for vehicular access. Where units front 700 East, these are to be oriented to that
street.

Access:
Primary access for the development will be from 700 East, with two ingress/egress points. The
entrances are proposed to be gated. The gates will have to be located such that they can comply
with Sandy City ordinance regarding gates (Section 21-21-10(o)) and accommodate the
queueing requirements of UDOT, as 700 East is a UDOT road. A main private road and private
alleys are proposed for internal vehicle circulation.

Parking:
Each unit will have a 2-car attached garage. 60 units will have a full driveway, which will
accommodate two guest parking spaces for each unit. The remaining 36 alley-loaded units will
share 46 guest parking spaces that are distributed throughout the development along the alleys
and drive-isles. The proposed guest parking exceeds the minimum guest parking requirement of
17 stalls. 19 off-street parking stalls are being proposed, As Sandy City ordinance allows the
Community Development Director to allow up to 10 percent above the maximum amount of
required parking, the extra two stalls can be added and still adhere to code. This is due to the fact
that there is no such thing as 1.7 parking stalls, so two additional stalls are allowed due to
rounding up the number.

Architectural Design & Materials:
The applicant is proposing to construct five different townhome types as well as farmhouse style
twin homes . There is also a red barn style clubhouse in the center of the development. None of
the buildings contain any stucco – only higher grade materials are being used. The primary
material is Hardie Board siding. All of the building designs have adequate articulation to provide
aesthetic interest.

Building Setbacks & Height:
PUD Zoning Districts do not have prescribed setbacks that must be met. Instead, the Planning
Commission may determine whether the proposed setbacks are adequate. For this project, the
setbacks from the north property line range from 20.96’ to 25.54’. Along the west property line
The Orchard at Farnsworth Farms – SPR06282021-006089                                          Page - 3 -


the setbacks range from 21.71’ to 26.61’. Along the south property line they are 22’, with one
unit being set back 37.95’. For the units that front onto 700 East the setbacks range from 5.75’ to
10.14’. A setback exhibit is attached to this staff report.

Sandy City ordinance imposes a height limit of 35 feet for all dwelling units. However, in a PUD
the Planning Commission may determine specific building heights. The proposed twin homes
adjacent to the north, west, and south property lines will be constructed as single-story dwelling
units in order to minimize their impact on the views of adjacent property owners. These
buildings are approximately 24 feet in height. The 6-plexes are 28 ½ feet tall. The 5-plexes are
approximately 29 ½ feet tall. The 4-plexes range from approximately 28 to 29 feet in height.
Finally, the clubhouse will be approximately 25 ½ feet tall.

Landscaping & Open Space
The applicant has submitted a full landscape plan for the site. Staff has found that it generally
meets the requirements specific to the PUD(10) Zone and those of Chapter 21-25 entitled
Landscaping Standards. The plans reflect a variety of deciduous and coniferous trees, shrubs,
seed mixes, and perennial flowers. PUD zoning districts require at least 40 percent open space
in a proposed development. The open space for this development is proposed to be 50.95 percent
of the area, resulting in approximately 5.09 acres of total open space. The central open space
area, called the great lawn, is approximately .94 acres. The open space contains a community
garden, playgrounds, fire pit, orchard, sidewalks, lawns, 18 sitting benches and six pet waste
stations.

CONCERNS
Staff has the following concerns regarding this proposal as submitted by the applicant:

   1. Gates. The applicant is proposing gates at both entrances of the development. The proposed
      gates will be very close to the adjacent units’ driveways. They will be sliding gates, as pivoting
      gates are prohibited by Sandy City ordinance. Staff is concerned that they could cause a
      nuisance for the adjacent homeowners. Also, they will have to be set back enough rom 700
      East to allow for adequate queueing of vehicles.

   2. Landscaping. The concept plan shows trees planted along 700 East. To accommodate the
      trees, an eight-foot parkstrip is required for tree planting. Trees may not be planted in
      narrower parkstrips, such as a typical five-foot parkstrip. And for trees planted behind the
      back of sidewalk, they must be planted at least four feet behind the sidewalk. However, the
      setbacks are quite small from 700 East so it is unclear whether they will be able to plant
      many trees, if any, behind the sidewalk. Staff believes the best way to resolve this issue is to
      incorporate an eight-foot parkstrip and five-foot sidewalk along 700 East, and then dedicate
      any property necessary to the back of sidewalk. This may impact the setbacks along 700 East
      somewhat, but would allow for a more uniform streetscape with regularly planted trees.

   3. Right-of-way width. The site plan shows a cross section for the primary private road with a
      width of 38 feet. This includes 27 feet of pavement, five feet total of curb and gutter, and a
      six-foot-wide curb-adjacent sidewalk. However, the preliminary plat shows a right-of-way
      width of 40 feet. This discrepancy will need to be resolved through final site plan review and
      subdivision review.
The Orchard at Farnsworth Farms – SPR06282021-006089                                          Page - 4 -


    4. Dumpster enclosures. The site plan shows two dumpster enclosures, one on either side of
       the great lawn. Staff has concerns about their proximity to the closest units. One is located 5’
       5” from the nearest dwelling unit, and the other will be 6’4” from the nearest unit. They were
       pushed back a bit from the original plan in order to place them further away from windows
       and doors, but it is still a concern.

STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission find that the preliminary site plan review is
complete for the proposed Orchard at Farnsworth Farms Site Plan, located at approximately
11237 S. 700 East, based upon the following conditions:

Conditions:

    1. That the applicant complies with each department’s comments and redlines throughout
       the preliminary and final review process and that all issues be resolved before final site
       plan approval.

    2. That all City provisions, codes and ordinances are adhered to during the review,
       construction and operations process of this building.

    3. All utility boxes (i.e. transformers, switch gear, telephone, cable tv, etc.) shall be shown
       on the site plan and shall be placed underground or moved behind the front setback of
       the buildings and screened from view. Each box shall be shown in its exact location and
       shall be noted with its exact height, width and length. Building utility meters shall be
       mounted to the side or rear elevation or screened with a wing wall if fronting a public
       street.

    4. That gates be located such that they adhere to Sandy City ordinance [21-21-10(o)] and
       also comply with UDOT’s queueing requirements.

    5. That an eight-foot parkstrip and five-foot sidewalk be incorporated along 700 East to
       facilitate the planting of street trees.

    6. That any property deemed necessary for dedication to Sandy City by the Public Works
       department be shown on the plat.

    7. That the building heights and setbacks be approved as identified in this staff report, as
       proposed by the developer.

    8. This approval is conditioned upon the City Recorder publishing Ordinance 20-04.


Planner:                                                       Reviewer:


________________________________                               _________________________________
Craig Evans                                                    Brian McCuistion
Planner                                                        Planning Director
