                               MEMORANDUM
                                         April 15, 2021


 To:            Planning Commission
 From:          Community Development Department
 Subject:       Real Salt Lake Soccer Stadium (Rio Tinto Stadium)                    SPR-06-40
                2021 Parking & Access Management Plan - Annual Update                RC Zone
                9256 S. State Street
                [Community # 2 – Civic Center]


HEARING NOTICE: This item has been noticed to property owners within a specified area around the
stadium property, which is beyond 500 feet.

BACKGROUND

On June 19, 2008, the Planning Commission reviewed and approved the Final Parking
and Access Management Plan for the Real Salt Lake Soccer Stadium. One of the
conditions of approval required that Real return to the Planning Commission annually to
review and update the plan. Real Soccer and their Transportation Engineer, Ryan Hales,
have updated their plan for the 2021 season as shown in the attached document. A
synopsis of the 2021 plan changes are included in an attached document to the updated
2021 Parking and Access Management Plan.

ANALYSIS
The applicant’s Transportation Engineer, Ryan Hales, has prepared revisions to the 2021
Parking and Access Management Plan for the Real Soccer Stadium and will present those
revisions to the Planning Commission for review and approval (see attached updated
Parking and Access Management Plan Quick Facts) at the meeting.

Changes of note since the 2020 review include the reduction of the UDOT Lot (127 stalls
to 95) west of Monroe Street at 9400 South due to the recent completion of the widening
of Northbound I-15.
Page 2              Real Salt Lake Soccer Stadium Parking and Access Management Plan Update

With the addition of 930 stalls in the Mountain America parking structure (2019) that are
available to the public after 6:00 pm and on the weekends there will still be a surplus of
parking stalls that are owned or available to Rio Tinto Stadium.

Due to the COVID pandemic, limited fans (ten thousand) will be allowed at the stadium
during each home game this season. Another item to be aware of is the report identifies
the fact that the Canadian MLS team (Vancouver Whitecaps) will be playing at least
some of their regular season “home” games at Rio Tinto Stadium due to the COVID
shutdowns in Canada. However, it is not anticipated that fans will be allowed at the
Vancouver Whitecaps “home” games at Rio Tinto Stadium.

The Planning Commission may remember that during the 2020 review the Commission
asked for the parking report to provide information regarding event scheduling conflicts
and to invite Sandy Police to attend the annual Planning Commission meetings to provide
additional information regarding traffic/parking issues.

Page 7 of the 2021 update does include a summary of the 2021 parking evaluation. There
is information regarding the number of conflicts with surrounding uses such as the
MACU Expo Center and the Hale Center Theatre. However, due to the existing COVID
restrictions and a limit on the number of fans allowed at each game, it is not anticipated
that there will be any parking issues for this year’s schedule, that is starting on May 1,
2021.

A member of the Sandy City Police Department should be in attendance to talk about
traffic and parking enforcement over the last couple of years.


RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review and approve the updated 2021 season
Parking and Access Management Plan for the Real Salt Lake Soccer Stadium located at 9256 S.
State Street.

Planner:



Brian McCuistion
Planning Director
