SANDY CITY COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT

JAMES SORENSEN
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR

KURT BRADBURN
MAYOR

MATTHEW HUISH
CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER

MEMORANDUM

June 17, 2021

To:        Planning Commission
From:      Community Development Department
Subject:   Comcast Headquarters Modified Site Plan Review      SPR-04-21-6024
           9602 S. 300 W.                                      10.77 Acres
           [Community #2, Civic Center]                        (RD) Zone

HEARING NOTICE:  This item has been noticed to property owners within 500 feet of the subject
                 area, by U.S. Mail delivery.

PROPERTY CASE HISTORY
CASE NUMBER        CASE SUMMARY
SUB-97-34          Sandy Commerce Park Subdivision, approved 1997.   Plat Recorded.
SPR-99-45          AT & T Offices Site Plan Approval 1999, 10.77 acre site consisting of two
                   lots in above cited subdivision.
MISC-02-21-5994    Comcast Warehouse Use Determination for interior remodeling and
                   change of use to allow ancillary warehousing use inside the existing
                   office building.  Approved March 4, 2021.
CODE-04-21-6025    Amending the RD zone to allow the Planning Commission to approve
                   specific ancillary uses that are subordinate to the primary use of a site
                   to include warehousing, heavy commercial and light industrial uses.
                   Approved by the Planning Commission on May 20, 2021 and is now
                   pending before the Sandy City Council and is on their agenda for June
                   15, 2021.

REQUEST
Mr. Greg Allshouse, representing Comcast Corporation, has filed an application requesting
Modified Commercial Site Plan Review by the Planning Commission, for the existing Comcast

10000 Centennial Parkway | Sandy, Utah 84070 | p: 801.568.7250 | f: 801.568.7278 | sandy.utah.gov

---

Comcast Headquarters Modified Site Plan Review     SPR-04-21-6024     Page - 2 -

Headquarters facility, located at 9602 S. 300 W. in the Research and Development (RD) zoning
district.  The existing 129,556 square foot, four story office building and its 10.77 Acre site are
being modified to allow the remodeling of the office and modification to the site improvements,
to accommodate a change in the use of the building and the site  to a regional headquarters.
Comcast Corporation is consolidating two other Salt Lake County existing service and installation
facilities' functions to this Sandy City location.  The site modifications include the expansion and
upgrade of the existing secured parking portion of the site, located along the western portion of
the site and behind the existing office building.  There will also be substantial landscaping
improvements made to the site.  The Planning Commission is the land-use authority for this
requested action.

BACKGROUND
American Telephone and Telegraph Company built the existing 129,556 square foot, four story
building at this location in 1999-2000.  The Zoning at that time was Industrial (ID).  The property
was later rezoned to the Research and Development (RD) zoning district, by City initiation based
upon the City's desire to upgrade the appearance of the freeway fronting property along the
west side of I-15.  Comcast Corporation is the successor to AT&T.  Comcast has made a business
decision to centralize its activities in the Utah region to the Sandy headquarters location,
including bringing its maintenance and installation technicians, and all the support vehicles to
this site.  The conversion of previously used office space to warehouse space is necessary to
support the technician activities at this site.  The office to warehouse conversion was authorized
by Planning Commission action on March 4, 2021, and the interior remodeling is near
completion.

Staff has also been working with Comcast representatives to address the Sandy City Development
Code amendments (petition CODE-04-21-6025 approved by the Planning Commission on May 20,
2021) and the site changes (petition SPR-04-21-6024, this current planning item) that are
necessary for the proposed changes to the outside site area to accomplish the intensification of
the regional headquarters needed by Comcast.

NOTICE
Notices were mailed to property owners within a 500-foot radius of the subject parcel to notify
them of the Planning Commission meeting.  A neighborhood meeting was not held for this project
due to the project's  location relative to to a lack of residenital zoning in the area.

ANALYSIS
Site intensification, evolution and Land Use Regulation Applicability.
As mentioned above, the Comcast site was developed in 1999 and that development approval
included 953 surface vehicle parking stalls.  The Comcast Office building has historically only been
used for office space. Over the past several years, other ancillary uses have been introduced,
some with City approval and others without. Comcast would like to discontinue the use of several
off-site located service and installation facilities, located throughout Salt Lake County, and
consolidate those activities to this location.  In doing so, Comcast will add an additional 182
employees reporting to the Sandy location, with 176 of those new employees being field

---

Comcast Headquarters Modified Site Plan Review     SPR-04-21-6024     Page - 3 -

technicians, being supplied and dispatched from this facility.  Hence the need for the expanded
secured and screened outside vehicle and equipment storage area.

 Comcast has requested accommodation through a prior code amendment to make that possible
under Sandy City's Development Code. Staff has summarized and accommodated their request
by drafting a zoning text amendment that allows the Planning Commission to approve specific
ancillary uses that are subordinate to the primary use of the site to include warehousing, heavy
commercial, and light industrial activities. The City defines "ancillary use" as follows:

     Ancillary use means a use conducted on the same lot as the primary use of the structure to
     which it is related; a use which is clearly incidental to and customarily found in connection
     with such primary use.

This ordinance change has prepared the way for Comcast to modify and expand the usage of this
site, while preserving the intent and primary uses of the zone to remain unchanged.

Proposed site modifications and uses.  The proposed modifications to the existing site include
three main elements.  The first is the enclosure of a large portion of the western part of the site
into an enclosed, secure and sight screened area in which to conduct the current and expanded
vehicle and  equipment parking, training facilities, recycling operations, and some materials
storage needs of the facility.

The second modification is changes to the existing parking lot by: reducing total number of
parking stalls from the 953 stall originally approved, to 779; changes to the existing parking lot
landscaped endcaps to eliminate those that will no longer be visible due to the screening wall
proposed for the secured parking and storage area; and the creation of a new north/south
driveway aisle to connect the parking lot areas behind the building.  The third modification is to
the site landscaped areas within the existing parking lot by: shifting the landscaping from within
the new secured area to a new 10 foot wide landscaped buffer strip at the outside edge of the
new split faced concrete block wall on the east and south sides of the new secured area; and by
replanting site trees in all the existing parking lot landscaped islands, consistent with the original
site plan approval planting plan.   Planning staff has suggested many of the proposed
modifications to the site and Comcast officials have agreed to the proposed modifications.  Staff
supports the approval by the Planning Commission of the proposed modifications to the existing
site plan for this project.

Pedestrian and Vehicle Access and On-site Circulation.  All street improvements, sidewalks,
landscaped parking strips, driveway approaches from 300 West Street and internal driveway
connections are in place from prior development of the site, and will remain adequate for the
proposed re-development.   The site modifications includes relocation of some of the ADA
required accessabile parking stalls, and the elimination of some excess parking stalls. This is being
done to accommodate the new and expanded secured parking and outside vehicle and
equipment storage area and to provide a better north/south driveway to connect the parking
areas around the back of the building.

---

Comcast Headquarters Modified Site Plan Review     SPR-04-21-6024     Page - 4 -

Zoning Review.  Adoption by the City Council of the zoning text amendment (CODE-04-21-6025)
will allow the Planning Commission to approve the requested ancillary uses of: contractor's
outdoor storage of materials, outside storage of equipment and service vehicles; secured parking
of company vehicles; outdoor training facilities for technicians; and electrical equipment
recycling operations.  These requested outside land use activities will all fall within existing City
land use definitions contained within the general land use categories of Warehousing, Heavy
Commercial and Light Manufacturing, and they are all clearly ancillary to the primary use of the
site being a corporate headquarters and office building for a major corporation, Comcast.

Architectural Design Review.  There are only minor changes to the exterior of the existing office
building, being the introduction of two new overhead doors to the back of the building for access
for loading and unloading equipment and electrical components in support of the new
warehousing function within a portion of the first floor of the office buiding.  These overhead
doors are not facing the public street, so they will meet applicable architectural design
requiements of Sandy City.

STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission find that the Modified Site Plan Review is
complete for the proposed Comcast Headquarters site, located at 9602 S. 300 West, based
upon the following four findings and the following five conditions:

FINDINGS.
     A. That the proposed project meets or will meet all the applicable requirements of the
        Sandy City Development Code and the Sandy City Architectural Design Standards as
        to building architectural design, materials and colors.
     B. That all necessary Sandy City Departments and Division have reviewed the project
        and recommend approval by the Planning Commission, subject to plan finalization
        and meeting their departmental requirements.
     C. That there is good reason for the City to allow the consolidation of personnel and
        technical operations and services to the Sandy Headquarters location.
     D. Approving the proposed modified site plan will improve the landscaping and other
        aesthetic elements of the current site and operations and will be more compatible
        with other new development within the RD zoning district.


CONDITIONS.

     1. That the developer proceeds through the final site plan review process with staff prior
        to the start of any construction. The final site plan shall comply with all Development
        Code requirements and those modifications required or allowed by the Planning
        Commission.

     2. That the development complies with all Building & Safety, Fire and Life Safety Codes
        applicable to this type of use.

---

Comcast Headquarters Modified Site Plan Review     SPR-04-21-6024     Page - 5 -

     3. That the developer be responsible to meet all provisions of Research and Development
        (RD) zoning district, and the Sandy City Architectural Design Standards, with the
        details finalized with staff during final site plan review.

     4. That the applicant complies with all department requirements as noted in all
        Preliminary Review letters prior to submittal for final site plan review with staff.

     5. That any signage be reviewed and approved under separate permit and be in
        conformance with City Code.


Planner:                                    Reviewed by:

[signature: Douglas L. Wheelwright]

Douglas L. Wheelwright,
Development Services Manager

---

[map/plat page 6 — no text]
Aerial vicinity map with parcel address labels. Legible labels include:
9460 S; 9560 S; 9675 S; 9640 S; Sandy Pkwy; 300 W; I-15 Sb Fwy; I-15 NB Fwy; Monroe St;
Subject Property (callout at 9602); numerous parcel numbers (9424, 9490, 9602, 9690, 9800,
9750, etc.); North arrow.
Title block: SPR-04-21-6024 / Comcast Warehouse / 9602 S. 300 W.
Scale bar: 0 62.5 125 250 375 500 625 Feet
PRODUCED BY BRYNN BOHLENDER THE COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT

---

COMCAST

City of Sandy Utah
10000 S Centennial Pkwy
Sandy, UT 84070
Attn Mr. Mike Wilcox

Mike Wilcox:

As part of Comcast's renovation of the 1st floor of our Sandy building located at 9602 South 300 West,
Sandy Utah. We are requesting expansion of the ancillary land use considerations allowed under Sandy,
Utah Municipal Code § 21-23-21-(o)-(2)-d, Specific Ancillary Uses.

Our specific requests are that the Development Code be amended to allow expanded land use and site
improvement elements be added to the "Specific Ancillary Uses" section of the RD zone to address the light
manufacturing; warehousing; recycling; secure vehicle storage lot; landscape and screening fencing
provisions; and other uses contemplated by our proposed changes.

Our specific requests are as follows:
     1) That Comcast be permitted to store materials and equipment behind a 7-foot-6-inch high concrete
        wall (detail provided in the application drawings) that will be located behind the building, giving
        additional screening from the traffic on I-15 as well as the traffic on 300 South.
     2) That Comcast be permitted to install a fence around a portion of the existing parking lot to provide
        for secure parking for our spare vehicles and equipment. The east side of the fence which runs
        parallel to 300 S. will be made of an extruded metal painted black (detail provided in the
        application drawings).  The fence material for the other sides for the fence will be a chain link style
        fence material.
     3) Removal of existing parking lot islands (within the fenced in area) and the incorporation of new
        landscape plantings along the east side of the fence and wall.
     4) With these changes, Comcast will add an additional 182 employees reporting to the Sandy location.
        Of those employees, 176 would be field technicians that either maintain our outside plant or install
        and service equipment for our customers throughout the Salt Lake Valley.

Comcast is asking for an expedited approval of this request as Comcast is working with two real estate
deadlines as it relates to this project: one, a lease expiration of our West Valley facility at the end of June
2021; and two, the sale of our Miller facility to support the Millcreek City Center redevelopment project.

Thank you for your time and consideration to this request.

Sincerely:

[signature]

Greg Allshouse
Facilities Manager

8000 E. Iliff Ave. Denver, CO 80231 www.comcastcorporation.com
