                                 MEMORANDUM
                                           June 17, 2021


 To:        City Council via Planning Commission
 From:      Community Development Department
 Subject:   Effects of Eminent Domain Proceedings                           CA06012021-0006062
            Amend Title 21, Chapter 2, General Provisions, of
            the Sandy Municipal Code


HEARING NOTICE: This item has been noticed on public websites, and in the newspaper at least
                10 days prior to the Public Hearing.



REQUEST
On behalf of the City, the Public Works Department is proposing to amend Title 21, Chapter 2, General
Provisions, of the Sandy Municipal Code. The purpose of the Code Amendment is to provide authority,
guidelines, criteria, and procedures for the planning commission to review and grant special
exceptions in connection with the city’s eminent domain proceedings or negotiations. At times, it is
necessary for the city or state to acquire properties in whole, or in part, from landowners through
eminent domain proceedings or negotiations. Properties acquired in part result in remainder parcels
that, in some cases, become nonconforming with respect to certain provisions of the Land
Development Code. The creation of new nonconformities or increases in the degree of nonconformity
of existing legal nonconformities, can impose hardships on landowners and to remainder parcels.
This would provide relief from those hardships that have been imposed upon the landowners. The
full text of the proposed changes is shown in Exhibit “A”.


BACKGROUND
The City has encountered situations involving City initiated road widening projects where a property
would become non-conforming in some aspect to accomplish the purpose of the designated road
project being done to promote the health safety and welfare of City residents. Some property owners
have sought legal means to obtain relief from the impacts created from the city project beyond
monetary compensation. The City’s legal department was asked to research and explore options to
provide an accommodation process outside of a variance procedure to give affected property owners
an option to seek relief.
Effects of Eminent Domain Proceedings – CA06012021-0006062                                        Page - 2 -


ANALYSIS
The impacts of this proposed change are best understood when applied to a particular situation. Staff
will use the most common type of scenario that this new regulation would apply: a road project.
When eminent domain is needed to allow for a road widening project, there are impacts to the
immediately adjacent properties. The taken land taken often makes the property non-compliant with
other city land development code regulations and they become legal, non-conforming in respect to
those requirements (i.e., building setback, landscape buffers, signage, parking, etc.). This can create
impacts on a property owner regarding property insurance, real estate transfers and financing
matters to name a few. Eminent domain requires the city pay fair-market value for the property taken
for the use of the road project, but financial compensation may not resolve all impacts created by this
action.

The proposed code amendment would provide the city or a property owner another tool to provide
legal relief from those impacts by granting a special exception to a particular code requirement if
certain criteria is met. This is intended to be applied narrowly to specific code requirements that can
no longer be met due to the city’s eminent domain actions. If approved, the property could maintain
a legal, conforming status rather than being branded legal, non-conforming. There are proposed
limits to the long-term impact of these exceptions being granted to ameliorate the non-conformities.
The special exceptions would be in effect until such time as the property is further developed,
rezoned, or a change of use occurs. At that time, the property would need to be brought into
compliance with current standards in place at the time of application.


NON-CONFORMING USES
This Code Amendment would not create any non-conforming use situations.


LAND DEVELOPMENT CODE PURPOSE COMPLIANCE
The Sandy City Land Development Code in 21-1-3 lists the criteria explaining the intent and
purpose of the Ordinance. The purpose is:

       21-1-3 Purpose
       This Code is adopted to implement Sandy City’s General Plan and to promote: public
       health, safety, convenience, aesthetics, welfare; efficient use of land; sustainable land use
       and building practices; transportation options and accessibility; crime prevention; timely
       citizen involvement in land use decision making; and efficiency in development review
       and land use administration. Specifically, this Code is established to promote the
       following purposes:

       1. General
          a. To facilitate the orderly growth and development of Sandy City.
          b. To facilitate adequate provision for transportation, water, sewage, schools, parks, and
             other public requirements.
          c. To stabilize property values.
          d. To enhance the economic well-being of Sandy City and its inhabitants.

       2. Implementation of General Plan
          To coordinate and ensure the implementation of the City’s General Plan through effective
          execution of development review requirements, adequate facility and services review and
          other goals, policies, or programs contained in the General Plan.
Effects of Eminent Domain Proceedings – CA06012021-0006062                                         Page - 3 -



        3. Comprehensive, Consistent and Equitable Regulations
           To establish a system of fair, comprehensive, consistent and equitable regulations, standards
           and procedures for review and approval of all proposed land development within the City.

        4. Efficiently and Effectively Managed Procedures
           a. To promote fair procedures that are efficient and effective in terms of time and expense.
           b. To be effective and responsive in terms of the allocation of authority and delegation of
               powers and duties among ministerial, appointed, and elected officials.
           c. To foster a positive customer service attitude and to respect the rights of all applicants
               and affected citizens.

The proposed Code Amendment would promote fair procedures that are efficient and effective. It
would also respect the rights of all applicants.


STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission forward a positive recommendation amend Title
21, Chapter 2, General Provisions, of the Sandy Municipal Code, as shown in (Exhibit “A”) based on
the following finding:

1.      Compliance with the Purpose of the Land Development Code by creating consistency and
        equitable standards in Sandy City.


Planner:                                  Reviewed by:




Mike Wilcox
Zoning Administrator

File Name: S:\USERS\PLN\STAFFRPT\2021\CA06012021-0006062_EFFECTS OF EMINENT DOMAIN\STAFF REPORT.DOCX
