                                                                                      10000 South Centennial

                                    Sandy City                                        Parkway Suite 231
                                                                                      Sandy, UT 84070

                                   Council Office                                     O| 801-568-7141
                                                                                      Sandy.Utah.Gov



                                             Memorandum

                                            November 9, 2021

To:              All City Council Members

Cc:              Mike Applegarth, Council Office Director

From:            Councilmember Zach Robinson

Subject:         First Reading: Creating the Alta Canyon Advisory Committee as Part of the Incremental
                 Alta Canyon Sports Center Decision Making Timeline


Introduction and Background:

On August 17th, the Council adopted the timeline and incremental decision-making process proposed for
the Alta Canyon Sports Center. On October 19th, we completed the first step of that process and
approved Resolution 21-34C, dissolving the Alta Canyon Administrative Control Board, revoking their
governmental authorities and restoring all rights, powers, and authorities to the Council beginning
January 1, 2022. As an extension of that decision, I’d like the Council and Mayor to consider creating a
special committee that would provide each branch of government with advice on legislative and
administrative issues as related to the Center. This memo proposes to move that conversation and
process forward.

The Special Committee Creation Process

The City has a specific procedure for the creation of any special committee, board, or commission, as
defined in Municipal Code (Sandy 3-1-7) and laid out in the Policy and Procedure Guide attached to this
memo. Within that policy, a special committee is defined as “a standing group of Sandy City residents,
Sandy City business owners, experts, or other individuals who are jointly appointed by the Mayor and
City council to advise them on matters of importance to the City.” The members of these special
committees are tasked with advising both the Council and the Mayor in legislative and administrative
matters, respectively. Special committees have no final governmental or finical decision-making
authority.

Upon creating the special committee through a joint resolution of the Mayor and the City Council, both
the City Council and the Mayor have the responsibility to appoint qualified individuals as committee
members or Council/ Staff Liaisons. Each committee will consist of a minimum of three and as many as
seven voting committee members, with as many as five appointed by a quorum of the City Council and
as many as two appointed by the Mayor. Liaisons take on additional responsibilities including reporting
on actions of the committee to the Council, serving as secretary and treasurer of the committee,
developing, setting, and publishing the meeting agendas, keeping records of meeting audio recordings,
notes, and minutes, monitoring member participation, and other responsibilities as defined in the
attached Special Committees Policy and Procedure Guide.
                                                                                       10000 South Centennial

                                    Sandy City                                         Parkway Suite 231
                                                                                       Sandy, UT 84070

                                   Council Office                                      O| 801-568-7141
                                                                                       Sandy.Utah.Gov



As with any other special committee appointments, all applicants must undergo a state and local
background check through the Records Division of the Sandy City Police Department, except as
supersede by local, state, or federal laws.

Once formed with members appointed, each special committee may adopt their own set of bylaws in
which to operate under, which must be approved by the Mayor and City Council through a joint
resolution. These bylaws will outline the required meeting procedures, member participation
requirements, and other guidelines. Each special committee can also elect a Chair and Vice-Chairperson
to serve a one-year term. The Chair will work with the staff liaison to set meeting agendas and lead each
meeting of the committee in accordance with the above-mentioned bylaws.

My Proposal

Though the Council voted to dissolve the Alta Canyon Administrative Control Board, the assistance,
expertise, and advice of an Alta Canyon Advisory Committee would provide great benefit to the Council
as we take over all governmental authorities and decision-making responsibilities.

I propose the Council and Mayor work together to create a joint-resolution approving the creation of a
special committee tasked with advising the Council and Mayor on all things related to the Alta Canyon
Sports Center. With this memo, I ask for direction to move forward to work with the Mayor and staff,
and return to the council with the required joint-resolution before January 1st of 2022.
