                                                                                    10000 South Centennial

                                     Sandy City                                     Parkway Suite 231
                                                                                    Sandy, UT 84070

                                    Council Office                                  O| 801-568-7141
                                                                                    Sandy.Utah.Gov



                                           Memorandum

                                           January 19, 2021

To:               City Council

Cc:               Mike Applegarth, Council Office Director

From:             Council Member Nicholl

Subject:          Proposed Changes to Sandy City Land Development Fencing Codes


Background, Eight-Foot Fencing:

The current Sandy City Land Development Code specifies that fencing for residential properties
does not exceed 6 ft. In August of 2016, the City Council approved Ordinance 16-30, which
modified the code to allow an eight-foot fence in residential zones, if prior permission was
granted by the Community Development Director.

Ordinance 16-30 also established that plans for eight-foot fencing must meet specific conditions
before receiving Director authorization. The conditions, listed in Sec. 21-28-10 of the code, are
as follows:

      a) The Director finds the additional height is justified by the particular circumstances of the
         property, such as safety, lot configuration, building placement on the lot, topography,
         and/or negative impacts to the property from adjacent uses.
      b) The proposed fencing is outside of the 60-foot sight visibility triangle and other clear
         view zones for corner lots.
      c) At least two weeks prior to construction of the fence, the affected abutting property
         owners shall be notified of the intent to build an eight-foot fence. Proof of this
         notification shall be provided to the Planning Division as part of the building permit
         application with any response from the abutting property owners.
      d) A building permit is applied for and approved.

Once these conditions are met, and Director approval is granted, residents may build an eight-
foot fence on their property.


Recommendations and Next Steps:

I propose the creation of code amendments to allow for eight-foot fences under certain
conditions without requiring Director approval. In order to make these changes in the Sandy
City code, further research is required to answer key questions. These include but are not
limited to: To what extent should the conditions for eight-foot fences be kept or removed from
                                                                                 10000 South Centennial

                                  Sandy City                                     Parkway Suite 231
                                                                                 Sandy, UT 84070

                                 Council Office                                  O| 801-568-7141
                                                                                 Sandy.Utah.Gov

the code? What new conditions should be explored that could benefit the change from six-foot
fencing to eight-foot?

A collaboration with Community Development Department staff should be arranged to conduct
further research into conditions and benefits of this code change, with the intent to bring an
analysis and conclusion of their findings, along with recommendations for further action, back
to the council for review before a formal code amendment is initiated and considered by the
Planning Commission.

Background, Spiked-Tip Fencing:

Currently, no language exists within the Sandy City Land Development Code that prohibits
spiked-tip fencing. The closest comparison exists in Sec. 21-28-7, where the code states that
barbed wire or “other similar fencing designed to prevent intrusions” are prohibited, unless
otherwise approved by the Director.

On Jan. 12, 2021, Animal Services Director Williams provided a Memo to Council Member
Nicholl with statistics on Sandy City incidents with deer and fencing in the last 48 months. The
memo stated that 53 incidents were recorded, 24 of which included deer impaled on fences.

Prohibiting the use and construction of spiked-tip fencing in future Sandy developments could
reduce the number of deer and fence incidents within Sandy.

Recommendations and Next Steps:

I propose development of code amendments to prohibit spiked tipped fencing for new
development in Sandy City.” Careful consideration of code language should be considered, and
I will work with the Community Development Department and the Police Chief
I recommend a draft be developed for Council review before a formal code amendment is
initiated.
