                               MEMORANDUM
                                         June 17, 2021


 To:          Planning Commission
 From:        Community Development Department
 Subject:     Crescent View Peaks Subdivision (Preliminary              SUB04272021-006035
              Review)                                                         Zone: R-1-20A
              137 E. 11000 S.                                                     1.07 Acres
              [Community #11 – Crescent]


HEARING NOTICE: This item has been noticed to property owners within 500 feet of the subject
                area, in addition to posting a sign on the property.



                                PROPERTY CASE HISTORY
   Case Number                                   Case Summary
 ZONE-04-21-6018       Rezone from R-1-40A to R-1-20A. Approved by the City Council on June
                       1, 2021.

DESCRIPTION OF REQUEST
The applicant, Kyle Simons, is requesting preliminary review for a one-lot single family
subdivision. The applicant is not requesting any special exceptions or overlay zones with his
request.

BACKGROUND & SITE CONDITIONS
The subject property is approximately 1.07 acres in size and is currently vacant with no
existing structures present. It is located in the R-1-20A zone and will be accessed from
Cascade Place. The property to the north and east is zoned R-1-40A. To the south is
property in the R-1-20A zone, and to the west are single-family homes in the R-1-12 Zone.

NOTICE
Notices were mailed to property owners within a 500-foot radius of the subject property as per
Sandy City Land Development Code requirements, to notify them of the Planning Commission
meeting. A neighborhood meeting was held April 15, 2021. Six residents were in attendance.
Resident comments and concerns from this meeting involved the effects of grading and
Crescent View Peaks Subdivision – SUB04272021-006035                                   Page 2


stormwater on an adjacent development, and traffic issues due to a prior business use that had
been located there.

SUBDIVISION ANALYSIS

Sec. 21-20-3. - Required Lot Size, Frontage Requirement
The R-1-20A zone is a single-family zone that requires lots to be at least 20,000 square feet in size.
The zone is a standard zone in the City, which means that all provisions for setbacks, building
height, lot frontage, lot size, etc. are all pre-determined by ordinance and must be adhered to. The
proposed plat conforms to all standards of the zone, and the applicant is only proposing to build
one single-family home on the lot.

There are other properties to the north and east of the applicant’s property in the R-1-40A zone
which are not part of this subdivision application, However, the applicant has provided a
conceptual master plan of how the surrounding area could develop, since development can
reasonably be expected at some future date. The Cascade Place right-of-way will be required to
be extended onto the applicant’s property. As it is a master planned road, at some points the
applicant will be constructing the full 52-foot wide City-standard right-of-way, while at other
points toward the east the construction will be approximately 42 feet wide. The remaining 10 feet
will be constructed if or when the surrounding properties develop as part of their obligation to
complete the master planned road.

STAFF CONCERNS

There is a small portion of a parcel to the northwest that is approximately 839 square feet that
will remain on the north side of Cascade Place, but it is too small to be built upon. A dwelling
will not fit, and accessory structures are not allowed to be constructed on a parcel if there is no
existing dwelling. For that reason, the applicant has chosen to label this ‘Parcel A’ on the
preliminary plat, rather than a numbered parcel, to ensure that it is not construed to be a
buildable lot of any type. Should the adjacent property ever develop the parcel can be
incorporated into that development and become part of a buildable parcel at that time.

The applicant has indicated that the proposed temporary turnaround on the preliminary plat
negatively impacts the buildability of the lot. City Staff is willing to work with the applicant on
another acceptable temporary turnaround solution during final review.

Also, staff wants to report that the owner of the property to the north came into the office and
informed us that he currently has an existing well that conflicts with the currently master planned
future route of Cascade Place. That issue will need to be addressed if or when the owner of that
property attempts to develop it. The current owner just wanted to ensure this is on the record.

STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission determine that preliminary review is
complete for Crescent View Peaks Subdivision, located at 137 E. 11000 S., based on the
following findings and subject to the following conditions:
   Crescent View Peaks Subdivision – SUB04272021-006035                                Page 3




   Findings:
      1. That the proposed subdivision is an infill development.

      2. That the proposed lot configuration is an efficient use of the land.

      3. That the proposed lot sizes and frontages conform to the requirements of the R-1-20A
         Zone.

      4. That the various City Departments and Divisions have preliminarily approved the
         proposed subdivision plat.

   Conditions:
      1. That the applicant complies with each department’s comments and redlines
         throughout the final review process and that all issues be resolved before the
         subdivision can be recorded.

      2. That all City provisions, codes and ordinances are adhered to during the review,
         construction, and operations process of this project, except as otherwise approved
         by waivers or special exceptions granted by the Planning Commission.

      3. That all residential lots comply with all requirements of the R-1-20A zone.

      4. That Parcel A be labeled as an unbuildable lot and be incorporated into future
         adjacent development.

      5. That the applicant work with City staff during final approval on an acceptable
         temporary turnaround design that meets all City and Fire Department requirements.



Planner: ___________________________            Reviewed by:___________________________
Craig Evans, Planner                            Brian McCuistion, Planning Director
