                                      Sandy City Council
                                 Legislative Policies and Procedures


SUBJECT: Rules of Procedure

BACKGROUND:
State law § 10-3-606 requires the City Council to adopt rules of order and procedure governing
and prescribing

   a) parliamentary order and procedure;
   b) ethical behavior; and
   c) civil discourse.

The City Council is further required to:

   a) conduct public meetings in accordance with the adopted rules of order and procedure;
   b) make the rules of order and procedure available to the public; at each meeting of the
      municipal legislative body; and on the City website.

POLICY:

   1. The “Sandy City Guidelines, Conduct of Official Council Meetings” adopted via Resolution
      #07-66C are hereby repealed.

   2. The Sandy City Council Rules of Order and Procedure are described as follows:
                                      Sandy City Council
                                 Rules of Order and Procedure


Parliamentary Order and Procedure, Ethical Behavior, and Civil Discourse

   1. Standard Order of Business

           a) The standard order of business for regularly scheduled meetings of the City Council
              is as follows. The City Council may vote to amend the standard order of business
              from time to time based on the actual content of each meeting. The Council will not
              entertain new items after 11 PM unless agreed to by a majority of the Members.
                                                                                                       Formatted: Indent: Left: 1.08", No bullets or
           b) Dependent on the annual meeting schedule, the City Council generally meets each          numbering
              Tuesday at 5:15 PM. City Council meetings will alternate between Work Sessions and           Deleted: <#>¶
              Business Sessions with two Work Session meetings per month and two Business
              Sessions per month. Council voting on substantive issues occurs in Business Sessions.
              Procedural votes such as closing a meeting, providing informal direction to staff
              based on information received from a presentation, or making necessary adjustments
              to the meeting schedule or agenda, may occur in the Work Session at the discretion
              of the Chair. There will be no final voting in Work Session. Work Sessions shall be
              conducted on the 2nd and 4th Tuesday of each month contingent on the annual              Formatted: Superscript
              meeting schedule.                                                                        Formatted: Superscript

             5:15 PM Work Session (2nd and 4th Tuesday of each month)                                  Formatted: Font: Bold
                  A. Informational briefings, training opportunities, discussion items, etc.           Formatted: Font: Bold, Superscript
             6:00 PM Time Certain
                                                                                                       Formatted: Font: Bold
                     1.     Citizen Comments (see E(1)(a) et seq.)
                  B. Standing Reports:                                                                 Formatted: Font: Bold, Superscript
                     1.     Agenda Planning Calendar Review & Council Director Report                  Formatted: Font: Bold
                     2.     Council Member Business                                                    Formatted: Font: 11.5 pt
                     3.     Mayor’s Report
                     4.     Chief Administrative Officer Report
                     5.     Other Standing Reports as needed

              5:15 Business Session (1st and 3rd Tuesday of each month)                                Formatted: Font: Bold
                  C. Voting Items                                                                          Deleted: Council Meeting
                     The Council welcomes citizen comment on any voting item, according to the         Formatted: Font: Bold, Superscript
                     procedure described in paragraph C(1)(c)-(d) below.
                                                                                                       Formatted: Font: Bold
                     1.      Consent Calendar
                                                                                                       Formatted: Font: Bold, Superscript
                     2.      Council Items
              6:00 PM Time Certain Items                                                               Formatted: Font: Bold
                  D. Public Hearings and Other Time Certain Items                                             Deleted: <#>Non-voting items¶
                                                                                                              Opening Remarks/Prayer/Pledge of Allegiance¶
                     1.      Citizen Comments
                                                                                                              Agenda Planning Calendar Review & Council
                             a)     Introduction. The City Council welcomes written and oral citizen          Director Report¶
                                    comments on any City subjects at regular meetings, for any                Council Member Business¶
                                    item not otherwise listed on that agenda.                                 Mayor’s Report¶
                                                                                                              Chief Administrative Officer Report¶
                             b)     Start Time. The Citizen Comment period will begin no earlier              Other Standing Reports as needed¶
                                    than 6:00 PM. The Council will aim to start the Citizen Comment           Informational briefings, training opportunities,
                                    period at 6:00 PM or as soon as possible thereafter.                      discussion items, etc.¶

                             c)     Citizen Contact Information. Each speaker is allowed three
                                 Sandy City Council
                            Rules of Order and Procedure
                                minutes to address the Council. The Chair may extend the time
                                for Citizen Comment at his or her discretion. Commenters are
                                requested to provide their name and contact information to
                                Council staff in order to maintain an accurate record of the
                                meeting.
                         d)     If a citizen is unable to attend a meeting in person, he or she
                                may provide written comments on City subjects to the City
                                Council Office by 3:00 PM the day of the Council Meeting to
                                have those comments distributed to the City Council and have
                                them read into the record at the appropriate time.
                 2.      Special Recognition
                 3.      Public Hearings
                 4.      Other Time Certain Items
                 5.      Standing Reports
                            a)       Opening Remarks/Prayer/Pledge of Allegiance                  Formatted: Numbered + Level: 5 + Numbering Style:
                            b)       Agenda Planning Calendar Review & Council Director Report    a, b, c, … + Start at: 1 + Alignment: Left + Aligned at:
                                                                                                  2.24" + Indent at: 2.74"
                            c)       Council Member Business
                            d)       Mayor’s Report
                            e)       Chief Administrative Officer Report
                            f)       Other Standing Reports as needed
                                                                                                  Formatted: Indent: Left: 2.08", No bullets or
                                                                                                  numbering
      c) Council Member Business, the Mayor’s report, and the Chief Administrative Officer’s
         report are informational in nature. These reports may include such items as updates
         from committee meetings, summaries of significant City events, recognition
         proposals, and recommendations for future discussion items. No action except
         discussion can occur on such an item at the meeting in which it is introduced; it
         must be added to a future agenda as a voting item before formal Council action can
         occur.

      d) Unless an item has been noticed on the agenda for a time certain, the Council may
         deviate from the standard order of business.

      e) Items not completed during the Council Meeting portion of the agenda should be
         rescheduled at the next available Council Meeting as appropriate.

2. Motions

      Main Motion

      a) A motion is a formal proposal by a Member of the City Council, in a meeting, that
         the Council take certain action.


      b) After a motion has been seconded, another Member of the Council may offer a
         friendly amendment to the original motion maker which he or she, together with
         the seconder of the motion, may accept or reject. Friendly amendments are
                                  Sandy City Council
                              Rules of Order and Procedure
            informal and are not counted toward motions to amend.

      Motion to Amend

      c) A motion to amend which has been seconded and receives a majority vote of the
         Members present amends the main motion.

              i.   A Motion to Amend must be germane. Any amendment proposed must in
                   some way involve the same question raised by the motion it amends. As
                   such, motions to amend should insert and/or strikeout wording of the
                   original motion. Motions to amend may not be the negation of the main
                   motion.

             ii.   The Chair will rule whether or not a Motion to Amend is germane to the
                   main motion.

      d) To retain clarity of debate, the main motion should only be amended no more than
         two times.

      e) A motion which has been seconded (amended or otherwise) and is the subject of
         debate must be dispensed with before a new motion can be considered. There are
         no “substitute motions” which unilaterally shift debate away from the main motion.

      Motion to Reconsider

      f) After a main motion has been dispensed with, a Motion to Reconsider may be
         offered at the same meeting in which the motion suggested to be reconsidered
         occurred. However, the Motion to Reconsider may only be offered by a Member
         who voted on the winning side, whether in the affirmative or negative. A second to
         the Motion to Reconsider may be offered by any Member. In the event of a tie vote,
         any member may offer a Motion to Reconsider. The Motion to Reconsider brings up
         the item at the same meeting in which the vote to be reconsidered occurred.

      Renewal of Motions

      g) If properly placed on the Council Meeting agenda, any Member may Motion to
         Rescind or Amend an action of the Council.

3. Debate

      a) It is recommended that formal titles such as “Mr./Madam Chair” be utilized to
         encourage a professional, courteous and orderly atmosphere.

      b) No motion shall be debated until it has been seconded by another Member of the
         City Council. A motion dies for lack of a second from another Member of the
         Council.

      c) For clarity, after a motion has been seconded, the Chair should restate the motion
                                    Sandy City Council
                               Rules of Order and Procedure
            or cause it to be displayed in writing for the Members of the Council and the public.

      d) The Chair should ensure that each Council Member who desires to speak has
         opportunity to do so.

      e) Members should refrain from speaking until being recognized by the Chair.

      Call the Previous Question or “Calling the Question”

      f) Any Member may make a Motion for the Previous Question during debate
         (commonly called “calling the question”). A Motion for the Previous Question is a
         proposal to end debate on the main motion. It requires a second and must be
         adopted by a majority of Members present. The Motion for the Previous Question is
         not debatable. A vote on the Previous Question does not decide the main motion.
         It decides whether or not debate on the main motion should cease.

      Appeal

      g) Any Member may raise a Point of Order without having first been recognized by the
         Chair in order to seek clarification on a parliamentary question. The Chair will rule
         on the Point of Order.

                i. Rulings of the Chair may be appealed to the City Council as a whole. A
                   majority vote of the City Council may override a ruling of the Chair.

      Pause in Council Proceedings
      h) The Chair may allow the Council to stand at ease for a brief pause if necessary
         during debate.

4. Quorum

      a) A quorum of the City Council is required to conduct business. A quorum is four
         Members.

5. Voting

      a) Voting shall be in the form of “yes” or “aye,” “no” or “nay,” and “abstain.” The
         names of those voting for, against, or abstaining shall be entered in the Council
         minutes.

      b) No Council Members shall vote unless physically present or participating through
         electronic means pursuant to Utah Code Annotated § 52-4-207. Proxy votes are not
         allowed.

      Types of Voting

      c) A roll call vote is required for all ordinances and may occur for other votes. “Roll
                                        Sandy City Council
                                   Rules of Order and Procedure
                call” means that each Council Member participating verbally gives his or her vote
                when called upon to vote. Any Member has the discretion to call for a roll call vote.

           d) If a roll call vote is not required, a voice vote may occur. A voice vote is the request
              of the Chair such as, “All in favor,” and/or “All opposed” where the Council
              Members simultaneously state their vote on an item.

           Number of Votes Required to Pass an Item

           e) The minimum number of votes required to pass an ordinance or resolution, or to
              take any action by the Council, unless otherwise prescribed by law, is a majority of
              the entire membership of the Council, without regard to vacancy or abscesses,
              namely four votes.

                    i. Notwithstanding this provision, a Council meeting may be adjourned to a
                       specific time if the majority vote is less than four votes.

           f)   An expression of “abstain” during voting shall not be considered as an affirmative or
                negative vote. For purposes of a Motion to Reconsider, an “abstain” vote does not
                grant standing. In other words, a Council Member who abstains on a question or is
                absent when the vote on a question is taken may not move to reconsider the
                question.


     g) In the case of a tie vote, the motion shall fail.

     Explanation of Vote or Conflict

     h) A Council Member desiring to explain his or her vote should do so prior to the call of the
        roll or voice vote.

     i)    Any Council Member who has an immediate or direct financial interest in any item
           pending before the Council shall disclose this fact to the Council at the time the item is
           called. Members declaring such an interest should leave the room during the discussion
           and abstain from voting on that item.

      j)   Custom should not conflict with adopted Rules of Order and Procedure. To the
           extent that custom conflicts with adopted Rules, the Rules shall supersede until
           amended to reflect customary practice.

6.   Amending the Rules

           a) If previous notice is given, namely a specific amendment or set of amendments to the
              Rules of Order and Procedure is placed on the regular Council Meeting agenda in
              advance, a majority vote of Members of the City Council is required to modify the Rules
              of Order and Procedure.

                      i.   If the Rules of Order and Procedure have not been explicitly placed on the
                           Council Meeting agenda for discussion, a two-thirds majority of the Council
                                        Sandy City Council
                                    Rules of Order and Procedure
                           Members present may suspend or modify the Rules in order to accomplish a
                           specific action.

           b) In the event that any provision herein conflicts with state law, state law supersedes.   Formatted: Font: 12 pt


   7. Annual Review and Re-adoption of the Rules of Procedure

           a) The City Council shall review and readopt its Rules of Procedure, including any          Formatted: Numbered + Level: 2 + Numbering Style:
              amendments, by majority vote, each calendar year no later than the last regularly        a, b, c, … + Start at: 1 + Alignment: Left + Aligned at:
                                                                                                       0.83" + Indent at: 1.08"
              scheduled Business Session Council Meeting in February.
                                                                                                       Formatted: Font: 12 pt




History:
Original Approval: March 29, 2016
Revision: February 19, 2019
Last Revision: 1-21-20
Last Revision: 9-1-20
