                                 MEMORANDUM
                                          December 2, 2021


 To:         City Council via Planning Commission
 From:       Community Development Department
 Subject:    Floodplain Code Updates                                        CA11122021-0006207
             Amend Title 21, Chapter 16, Floodplain Overlay
             Zone of the Sandy Municipal Code


HEARING NOTICE: This item has been noticed on public websites, and in the newspaper at least
                10 days prior to the Public Hearing.



REQUEST
At the request of the Public Utilities Department, the City is proposing to amend portions of the Land
Development Code to address updates related to floodplains. The purpose of these amendments is to
update our requirements and standards to address a few minor deficiencies that were recently
identified in consultation with the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) Coordinator for Utah
and the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). These changes were also reviewed by the
City’s Public Utilities Advisory Board (PUAB). A letter that further explain the need and a brief
overview of the proposed changes are shown in the attached memo from Tyler Shelley, Chief
Engineer. The full text of the proposed changes is shown in Exhibit “A”.

ANALYSIS
The proposed amendments to Chapter 21-16 - Floodplain Overlay Zone, which was completely re-
written earlier this year, are relatively minor but important clarifications. These changes have been
reviewed by federal and local officials to ensure our code meets all federal and state requirements.
These modifications to our code will bring us in line with NFIP requirements.

NON-CONFORMING USES
This Code Amendment would not create any non-conforming use situations.

LAND DEVELOPMENT CODE PURPOSE COMPLIANCE
The Sandy City Land Development Code in 21-1-3 lists the criteria explaining the intent and
purpose of the Ordinance. The purpose is:
Floodplain Updates – CA11122021-0006207                                                           Page - 2 -



       21-1-3 Purpose
       This Code is adopted to implement Sandy City’s General Plan and to promote: public
       health, safety, convenience, aesthetics, welfare; efficient use of land; sustainable land use
       and building practices; transportation options and accessibility; crime prevention; timely
       citizen involvement in land use decision making; and efficiency in development review
       and land use administration. Specifically, this Code is established to promote the
       following purposes:

       1. General
          a. To facilitate the orderly growth and development of Sandy City.
          b. To facilitate adequate provision for transportation, water, sewage, schools, parks, and
             other public requirements.
          c. To stabilize property values.
          d. To enhance the economic well-being of Sandy City and its inhabitants.

       2. Implementation of General Plan
          To coordinate and ensure the implementation of the City’s General Plan through effective
          execution of development review requirements, adequate facility and services review and
          other goals, policies, or programs contained in the General Plan.

       3. Comprehensive, Consistent and Equitable Regulations
          To establish a system of fair, comprehensive, consistent and equitable regulations, standards
          and procedures for review and approval of all proposed land development within the City.

       4. Efficiently and Effectively Managed Procedures
          a. To promote fair procedures that are efficient and effective in terms of time and expense.
          b. To be effective and responsive in terms of the allocation of authority and delegation of
              powers and duties among ministerial, appointed, and elected officials.
          c. To foster a positive customer service attitude and to respect the rights of all applicants
              and affected citizens.

The proposed Code Amendments will create consistency and equitable standards in Sandy City. They
facilitate the orderly growth and development of Sandy City and facilitate adequate provision for
transportation, water, sewage, schools, parks, and other public requirements, by establishing a
system of fair, comprehensive, consistent, and equitable regulations, and standards under which all
proposed development will be reviewed and evaluated within the City.

GENERAL PLAN COMPLIANCE
The General Plan has several goals and policies that would be furthered by these proposed
amendments such as:
   • Provide efficient, cost-effective, and environmentally sound storm drain, flood control,
       and treatment facilities to protect existing and future land uses, preserve public safety,
       and protect surface and groundwater quality.
   • Provide standards, guidelines and criteria having the effect of minimizing flooding,
       erosion, and other environmental hazards and to protect natural scenic character of the
       hillsides.
Floodplain Updates – CA11122021-0006207                                                           Page - 3 -



STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission forward a positive recommendation to the City
Council to amend Title 21, Chapter 16, Floodplain Overlay Zone, of the Sandy Municipal Code, as
shown in (Exhibit “A”) based on the following findings:

1.      Compliance with the Purpose of the Land Development Code by creating consistency and
        equitable standards in Sandy City and facilitating the orderly growth and development of Sandy
        City and facilitate adequate provision for transportation, water, sewage, schools, parks, and other
        public requirements, by establishing a system of fair, comprehensive, consistent, and equitable
        regulations, and standards under which all proposed development will be reviewed and evaluated
        within the City.

2.      Compliance with the Goals and Policies of the General Plan by addressing environmentally
        sound storm drain and flood control standards that protect existing and future land uses,
        preserve public safety and water quality.


Planner:




Mike Wilcox
Zoning Administrator
File Name: S:\USERS\PLN\STAFFRPT\2021\CA11122021-0006207_FLOODPLAIN REVISIONS\STAFF REPORT.DOCX
