                               MEMORANDUM
                                         March 18, 2021


 To:          Planning Commission
 From:        Community Development Department
 Subject:     Thackeray Towns Subdivision (Preliminary Review                 SUB-06-20-5863
              and Special Exception Requests)                                 SPEX-03-21-6001
              10670 S. and 10760 S. 700 E.                                        11.89 Acres
              [Community #11 – Crescent]                                        PUD(10) & CN


HEARING NOTICE: This item has been noticed to property owners within 500 feet of the subject
                area. A sign was also posted on the property.




                                    PROPERTY CASE HISTORY
    Case Number                                     Case Summary
  SPR #77-15            Reams Market – Site Plan Approval
  SPR #78-31            Reams Addition – Site Plan Approval
  CUP #92-10            Reams – Conditional Use Approval
  SPR #92-20            Ream’s Grocery Store – Site Plan Approval
  SUB-08-19-5699        Lot Line Adjustment Approved August 29, 2019
  SPR-06-20-5869        Challenger School – Site Plan Approved August 20, 2020
  CUP-07-20-5883        Challenger School – Conditional Use Approval August 20, 2020
                        Villas at Southtowne Rezone from CN to PUD(10) approved in October
  ZONE-5-19-5655
                        2019

REQUEST
The applicant, The Thackeray Company, is requesting preliminary subdivision review for a
proposed preliminary plat that creates one large lot for the future Challenger School to the north,
and then plats all the individual units of the proposed Thackeray Towns project to the south of
that. The applicant is not requesting any overlays in association with this application, but is
requesting the following three special exceptions:
Thackeray Towns Subdivision – SUB-06-20-5863 : SPEX-03-21-6001                          Page - 2 -


   1. Exception for a subdivision without two points of ingress/egress
   2. Exception for a right-of-way width less than 52 feet
   3. Exception for a waiver to the requirement for park strip and sidewalk on both sides of
      the right-of-way

BACKGROUND
The subject property is zoned CN zone (Planned Center – Neighborhood District) on the north
side and PUD(10) on the south side. To the west are single-family homes in the R-1-10 zone. To
the south are single-family homes in the SD(R-1-8) PUD zone. To the east is 700 E. Across the
street are multi-family units located in the RM (12) zone, and also homes in a PUD (8) zone.

The subject property is 11.89 acres in size, is vacant, and is comprised of 3 parcels. The north
two parcels previously had a Ream’s Grocery Store on them until August, 2020, when it was
demolished for the future Challenger School. The Challenger School obtained a preliminary site
plan approval from the Planning Commission on August 20, 2020. At the time it was anticipated
that the subdivision plat would be done together with the subdivision for Thackeray Towns. This
appication is the finalization of that intent.

NOTICE
Notices were mailed to property owners within a 500-foot radius of the subject parcel to notify
them of the Planning Commission meeting. A sign was also posted on the property. The applicant
held a neighborhood meeting on July 7, 2020. Notices (106) were sent for the neighborhood
meeting, and there were 16 attendees. Several questions and concerns were raised during the
meeting. A full summary from the meeting is attached to the staff report for the Thackeray Towns
site plan staff report.

SUBDIVISON ANALYSIS
There are two zones that run through this subdivision. To the north is the CN zone, which is
where the future Challenger School will be located. The school is a conditional use in the CN
zone. A conditional use permit was obtained for it on August 20, 2020.

The other zone is the PUD(10) zone, which includes all of the Thackeray Towns proposed 40-
unit development, and does not require any conditional use permits as the development is a
permitted use under the PUD(10) zone.

The subdivision is proposing to use only public roads in its design. Currently the plat does not
have street names, which is fine at this point. However, they will be required to properly label
the plat with street names and property addresses before they can obtain final staff approval.

The applicant has informed staff that the intent of the Thackeray Towns development is to sell
each lot for individual ownership, rather than rent them out, as was the initial plan when the
project was first applied for. While an HOA will need to be established to maintain the common
areas, it is not currently intended that they will maintain the exterior of the units/buildings.

SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS
The proposal falls short on meeting some of the development code requirements regarding
public right-of-way width and sidewalks. As such, the applicant is seeking three special
exceptions from the Land Development Code standard requirements.
Thackeray Towns Subdivision – SUB-06-20-5863 : SPEX-03-21-6001                           Page - 3 -


   1) Special exception for subdivision without 2 points of ingress/egress [21-21-10(d)(1)]
      The development code requires two points of ingress/egress for a subdivision. The
      Planning Commission may grant a special exception to allow a subdivision to have
      only one point of ingress/egress, after considering a recommendation from the City
      Engineer and Fire Marshal, under the following circumstances:

       a. Thirty or fewer lots/units are accessed from the single ingress/egress;
       b. The Director and City Engineer have reviewed the potential for impairment of such
          single access resulting from vehicle congestion, condition of the terrain, climatic
          conditions or other factors that could limit access and have made either a positive or
          negative recommendation to the Planning Commission with regards to a single point
          of ingress/egress; and
       c. The proposed development project has one or more of the following, as determined
          and recommended for approval or denial by the Director and City Engineer to the
          Planning Commission:
              1. One or more cul-de-sacs, hammerheads, or other approved turn-around that
                  comply with all development standards herein.
              2. An emergency access (a point of ingress/egress that provides access for
                  emergency vehicles to respond to a building, or facility, in the event the main
                  access is compromised. The design of this access must meet the International
                  Fire Code).
              3. The future extension of a stub street that will provide additional access,
                  including a temporary turn-around.
              4. All buildings are equipped throughout with automatic sprinkler systems
                  approved by the Fire Marshal and Chief Building Official.

      Staff Analysis and Recommendation for #1
      Although a second primary access is not possible for this subdivision, there is another
      point of access in front of the future Challenger School that will serve as an emergency
      access, thus alleviating staff concerns. Staff and the City Engineer supports this request.


   2) Special exception for a right-of-way less than 52 feet [21-21-10(f)]
       Street right-of-way widths shall be as shown on the Transportation Master Plan and,
       where not shown therein, shall not be less than the following (unless modified by a
       waiver or special exception as allowed herein):

        Street Type                Right-of-way Width
        Local                      52 feet


       Staff Analysis and Recommendation for #2
       The proposed right-of-way for the interior roads is 38 feet, rather than the typical 52 feet.
       However, the right-of-way contains the same amount of pavement as a typical local road.
       For this reason it will provide adequate circulation throughout the site. Staff and the City
       Engineer supports this request.
Thackeray Towns Subdivision – SUB-06-20-5863 : SPEX-03-21-6001                          Page - 4 -


   3) Special Exception for park strip, sidewalk, and curb & gutter waiver [21-21-10(n)]

        n. Curbs, gutters, park strips, and sidewalks shall be required on all existing and
           proposed public and private street frontage of any lot within a subdivision or legal
           buildable parcel in conformance with the Standard Specifications. The Planning
           Commission may grant a special exception to waive any of these improvements,
           after considering a recommendation from the Director and City Engineer. They shall
           consider and evaluate the following criteria:
                       1. The number of homes within the subdivision;
                       2. The length of a cul-de-sac;
                       3. The precedence of adjoining improvements;
                       4. The configuration of lots;
                       5. Where the only other alternative is a private road design;
                       6. Flood control and storm drainage;
                       7. Pedestrian safety and walkable element demands;
                       8. The proposal equitably balances the needs of the public and presents
                           the most efficient use of land;
                       9. The potential negative impacts created by the waiver(s); and
                     10. The cumulative effect of all the waivers and any other exceptions
                           requested for the development.

            Staff Analysis and Recommendation for #3
            There will be relatively low traffic volumes for this development. The applicant is
            not asking for an exception for curb and gutter, just for park strips on both sides of
            the street and a one sidewalk. There will be a six-foot wide sidewalk adjacent to the
            curb around the middle of the development which will then lead to another sidewalk
            that provides safe access to 700 E. This will allow for adequate pedestrian movement
            throughout the development. Staff and the City Engineer supports this request.

STAFF CONCERNS
Staff is concerned that the HOA does not currently intend to maintain the exterior of the units
or buildings. This makes sense for the single-family homes because these will be owned
properties, rather than rented, and each home is a separate, discrete structure. However, it may
be advisable for the HOA to maintain the townhome units. The owners of the single-family
homes can easily be responsible for maintenance of their own properties, but this becomes
problematic for townhome units.

Another concern is that the driveway on the southeast of the property is shown on the plat as
extending all the way to the south property line. In all other plans it appears to terminate along
the southern edge of the southeast townhome building. We believe that is where it should
terminate. It seems likely that the plat shows it extending all the way to the south property line
in error.
Thackeray Towns Subdivision – SUB-06-20-5863 : SPEX-03-21-6001                        Page - 5 -


STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission determine preliminary subdivision review is
complete and that the following three special exception requests:

   1. Exception for a subdivision without two points of ingress/egress
   2. Exception for a right-of-way less than 52 feet
   3. Exception for a waiver to the requirement for park strip and sidewalk on both sides of
      the right-of-way

Be approved for the Thackeray Towns Subdivision located at 10670 S. and 10760 S. 700 E.,
based on the following findings and subject to the following conditions:

Findings:

   1. The lots meet the requirements for size and frontage in both the CN zone and the PUD(10)
      zone as may be approved by the Planning Commission.

   2. The City Engineer, as well as other reviewing departments, have recommended approval
      of the proposed subdivision.

Conditions:

   1. That the applicant complies with each department’s comments and redlines throughout
      the final review process and that all issues be resolved before the subdivision can be
      recorded.

   2. That all City provisions, codes and ordinances are adhered to during the review, and
      construction of this project.

   3. That the applicant dedicates all required right-of-way as determined by the Sandy City
      Public Works Department.


Planner:                                           Reviewed by:




Craig P. Evans                                     Brian McCuistion
Planner                                            Planning Director
