Canyons Master Plan Considerations, Sequencing and Costs
Transportation and Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) Schedules

    •   Early Summer 2021:
            o UDOT LCC Draft EIS released
            o 45-day public comment period

    •   Fall 2021:
             o Start work on Highland Dr EIS

    •   Winter 2021-22:
           o Final UDOT LCC EIS published

    •   2022-2023:
           o Highland Dr EIS process

    •   Spring/Summer 2023:
            o Discuss and compare findings of Highland Dr and LCC EIS’s. Determine a project
                schedule and budget needs.
            o Apply for grants.

    •   2021-2023+:
           o Continue to work with developers, UDOT, and neighboring jurisdictions as private and
               regional projects move forward.

Transportation Considerations

The City doing a Canyons transportation area study and/or master plan now would result in duplicating
what UDOT is already underway studying. Waiting until the Little Cottonwood Canyon (LCC) EIS and
Highland Drive EIS are complete will allow for a much higher quality and enabling study and plan. The
budget commitment to these EIS’s is $7.2 Million for the LCC EIS and $4.3 Million for the Highland Drive
EIS.

The completed UDOT LCC EIS and Sandy/Draper Highland Drive EIS will be helpful for drafting Sandy’s
own canyons area master plan and transportation scope. The LCC EIS will address much of the
transportation issues that Sandy and others on the eastside are concerned about and provide viable
solutions. Additionally, the Highland Drive EIS will dive deeper into the traffic modeling details and
impacts due to various corridor solutions. The Transportation Master Plan (TMP) will provide a basic
starting point for this modeling. The LLC EIS and Highland Drive EIS outcomes will have a major impact
on future transportation and therefore, development of the area. Upon release of the EIS findings of
each solution alternative, the City can start to build a planning scope and tasks and set a process for
development and improvements for the area. Both EIS’s will provide very good support to any future
projects we do by providing a reference source. The two EIS’s are regional and therefore significant as
the City seeks funding for transportation and developer intent.
Community and Economic Development Considerations

The area of Little Cottonwood Canyon (LCC) and the surrounding areas such as 9400 South 2000 East will
be better master planned if done with a comprehensive approach including land-use, transportation,
infrastructure and market analysis.

Given the LCC transportation dynamic and its broad-based issues and interest, it makes sense for the
transportation elements of the area to be more squarely resolved before evaluating development and
redevelopment opportunities and potential. By doing so, City planning can better evaluate potential
land-uses, zoning, development requirements and seek citizen input with known transportation
parameters. This will allow for more constructive input and dialog with residents and stakeholders.

For economic development, the sequence of defining the transportation solutions, receiving citizen and
elected official input and determining land-use requirements will allow for a more accurate and
plausible market study to be performed of the area. As a result, promotion and development of the area
will be consistent with the master plan and therefore, more sustainable.

From a budget standpoint, area master plans in Sandy have ranged between $300,000 and $1.7 Million.
Plans that have significant engineering or technical analysis will be in the middle, upper end of the cost
scale. A Canyons Area Master Plan as discussed will probably be in at least $ 1 Million. The idea of
planning ahead and developing a funding plan over time is a good start.
