                               MEMORANDUM
                                          July 15, 2021


 To:          Planning Commission
 From:        Community Development Department
 Subject:     Mt. Jordan Meadows No. 4 Subdivision (Preliminary         SUB05102021-006046
              Review)                                                   SPX07072021-006098
              Approx. 9270 S. and Benson Way                                Zone: R-1-8 & PO
              [Community #4 – Historic Sandy]                                      2.95 Acres



HEARING NOTICE: This item has been noticed to property owners within 500 feet of the subject
                area, in addition to posting a sign on the property.



                                  PROPERTY CASE HISTORY
  Case Number                                       Case Summary
                     Sandy 5 Acre Plat
     S64-01          Mt. Jordan Meadows No. 1 Subdivision was approved in 1964
     S73-19          Mt. Jordan Meadows No. 2 Subdivision was approved in 1973
  MISC-07-20-        Partial Street Vacation of 9270 S. Approved by Council in 2020.
      5878
  ZONE-03-21-        Zoned .09 acres from PO to R-1-8. Approved by City Council on June 1, 2021.
      6014
 MISC05112021-       Benson Way Partial Street Vacation
    006047

DESCRIPTION OF REQUEST
The applicant, the Sandy City Public Works Department, is requesting preliminary review for a
four-lot subdivision. The applicant is requesting the application of the Residential Conservation
Overlay (RCO) Zone and is also requesting a special exception to allow non-buildable parcels to
be created because they are a necessary byproduct of the eminent domain process that has been
implemented in the 9270 S. realignment project.

BACKGROUND & SITE CONDITIONS
Mt. Jordan Meadows No. 4 Subdivision – SUB05102021-006046 &                                Page 2
                                       SPX07072021-006098
The subject property is approximately 2.95 acres in size and currently contains an existing
home on lot 401, which will remain. The property is zoned mostly R-1-8, with a portion of
the subdivision (Lot 404, the large triangular parcel mistakenly labeled Lot 403 on the
preliminary plat) zoned as PO (Professional Office). The property is bordered by single-
family homes in the R-1-8 zone to the east and north, the RC (Regional Commercial) zone to
the west, and the SD (JHS) (Miller) zone to the south, which is comprised of the Jordan
Commons Complex.

NOTICE
Notices were mailed to property owners within a 500-foot radius of the subject property as per
Sandy City Land Development Code requirements, to notify them of the Planning Commission
meeting. A physical sign was also placed on the property. The Community Development
Director determined no neighborhood meeting was necessary because of the residents’
familiarity with this extended project.

SUBDIVISION ANALYSIS
The R-1-8 zone is a standard zone within Sandy City, with a minimum lot size requirement of
8,000 square feet. However, the applicant is requesting the application of the Residential
Conservation Overlay (RCO) zone, which allows for smaller lot sizes. It allows lot sizes of 6,500
square feet as long as the average lot size is 7,500 square feet. In order to apply the RCO zone, the
development must be within one-half mile of multiple walkable components, as listed in the code
citation below:
Sec. 21-13-4. - Walkable Components.

A new development implementing the RCO may be located at infill locations where walkable
components (e.g., housing choices, convenience commercial, employment, community
facilities, transportation linkages, parks or other open spaces, schools, or churches) are
already present or planned. As a guiding principle, walkable components should be within a
ten minute (or one-half mile) walking distance.

The applicant has provided a letter explaining their request for the RCO Zone. Additionally,
they have provided a map exhibit showing numerous walkable components within ½ mile of
the proposed subdivision. The request and accompanying exhibit are attached to this staff
report. The request is to apply to RCO Zone only to Lots 402 and 403, located on the east side
of Rimando Way. It would not be applied to lot 404 (the large triangular parcel which is
mistakenly labeled lot 403 on the preliminary plat) because it is commercially zoned property.
It also would not be applied to Lot 401, because then it would create a nonconformity since the
existing home does not meet the criteria for the RCO Zone. For example, it does not have a
direct walkway from the front porch to the sidewalk, nor does it have a wide enough front
porch, as required by the RCO Zone.

STAFF CONCERNS
Staff’s primary concern with the subdivision is that it proposes to create two unbuildable parcel
remnants, labeled ‘Parcel A’ and ‘Parcel B’. The Sandy City Land Development Code prohibits
creating parcel remnants. However, there is a provision in the newly adopted ordinance
regarding eminent domain, which is a tool that was used as part of the 9270 S. realignment
project. Below is the relevant section of the ordinance that allows the Planning Commission to
Mt. Jordan Meadows No. 4 Subdivision – SUB05102021-006046 &                                Page 3
                                       SPX07072021-006098
approve a special exception for the creation of nonconforming parcel remnants (in this case
‘Parcel A’ and ‘Parcel B’) as they are a necessary impact of the project’s eminent domain
process:

   (a) Special Exception. In certain cases, the impacts of an eminent domain proceeding or
       negotiation may be mitigated, either wholly or in part, through planning commission
       approval of special exceptions, which may be applied for by the property owner or the
       condemning authority.
           (1) Subject to this section, Planning Commission may grant special exceptions for
               provisions of this title, including but not limited to lot area, lot depth, lot width,
               setbacks, parking, open space, landscaping, signage, etc.
           (2) Special exception submittal requirements are as follows (as applicable):
                   a. Survey of the affected property.
                   b. A scaled site plan showing proposed modifications with dimensions
                       relative to, but not limited to, the following: building and sign setbacks,
                       number of parking spaces, typical parking space dimensions, landscape
                       buffer width, sign locations, sign area and height.
                   c. A table that compares: (i) pre-condemnation conditions; (ii) post-
                       condemnation conditions without the proposed special exceptions; and
                       (iii) post-condemnation conditions with the proposed special exceptions.
                       At a minimum, the following shall be included: lot area, lot width, lot
                       depth; setbacks; building square footage; percent of open space; sign face
                       area and setback; number and type of signs; number of parking spaces and
                       typical parking space and drive aisle dimensions; and landscape buffer
                       width and percent of interior parking lot landscaping.
   (b) Special Exception Review Criteria. The planning commission shall review special
       exceptions. In granting the special exception, the planning commission shall make
       findings and reach affirmative conclusions as to the following criteria:
           (1) Granting the special exception does not adversely affect the health, safety, and
               welfare of the public.
           (2) Granting the special exception is the minimum necessary for the reasonable use of
               land and improvements.
           (3) Granting the special exception does not have a materially detrimental impact on
               the rights or enjoyment of property of adjacent property owners.
           (4) The special exception is the result of a hardship imposed by eminent domain
               proceedings or negotiations.
           (5) City staff has provided a recommendation to the planning commission describing
               whether the proposed changes that would be authorized by the special exception
               are necessary and appropriate for the changes in the property caused by the
               eminent domain proceedings or negotiations.
   (c) Approval Authority. The planning commission may deny, approve, or approve with
       conditions any special exception requested pursuant to this section.
Staff views approving the special exception as warranted under this circumstance. Parcel A and
Parcel B may still then be consolidated or disposed of properly at a future date.
   Mt. Jordan Meadows No. 4 Subdivision – SUB05102021-006046 &                             Page 4
                                          SPX07072021-006098
   The final subdivision plat will need to include a cross access to Jordan Commons to the south
   due to the partial vacation of 9270 S.

   STAFF RECOMMENDATION
   Staff recommends that the Planning Commission determine that preliminary review is
   complete and that the special exception request for non-buildable parcel creation be
   approved for the Mt. Jordan Meadows No. 4 Subdivision, located at approximately 9270 S.
   and Benson Way, based on the following findings and subject to the following conditions:

   Findings:
      1. That the proposed subdivision is an infill development.

      2. That the proposed lot configuration is an efficient use of the land.

      3. That remnant parcels are unavoidable in this circumstance.

      4. That the various City Departments and Divisions have preliminarily approved the
         proposed subdivision plat.

   Conditions:
      1. That the applicant complies with each department’s comments and redlines
         throughout the final review process and that all issues be resolved before the
         subdivision can be recorded.

      2. That all City provisions, codes and ordinances are adhered to during the
         review, construction, and operations process of this project, except as
         otherwise approved by waivers or special exceptions granted by the Planning
         Commission.

      3. That the Planning Commission approve the application of the Residential
         Conservation Overlay Zone for lots 402 and 403.

      4. That the Planning Commission approve the special exception allowing the
         applicant to create a Parcel A and Parcel B as part of the proposed subdivision.

      5. That residential Lot 401 comply with all requirements of the R-1-8 zone.

      6. That residential Lots 402 and 403 comply with all the requirements of the RCO
         Zone.

      7. That the final subdivision plat include a cross access to Jordan Commons to the
         south.



Planner: ___________________________            Reviewed by:___________________________
Craig Evans, Planner                            Brian McCuistion, Planning Director
