                                MEMORANDUM
                                           July 15, 2021


 To:        City Council via Planning Commission
 From:      Community Development Department
 Subject:   Amendments Related to Development Moratorium                   CA06232021-0006081
            on Properties East of Wasatch Blvd
            Amend Title 21, Chapter 15, Sensitive Area
            Overlay Zone and Title 21, Chapter 20, Residential
            Development Standards, of the Sandy Municipal
            Code


HEARING NOTICE: This item has been noticed on public websites, and in the newspaper at least
                10 days prior to the Public Hearing.



REQUEST
On behalf of Sandy City, the Community Development Department is proposing to amend Title 21,
Chapter 15, Sensitive Area Overlay Zone and Title 21, Chapter 20, Residential Development
Standards, of the Sandy Municipal Code. The purpose of the Code Amendment is to address concerns
with development in sensitive lands areas of the city and to address any deficiencies in the City’s
regulatory controls and protections over those areas. These proposed amendments are in response
to the temporary land use regulations enacted by the City Council on April 6, 2021 (see Ordinance
21-14). The full text of the proposed changes is shown in Exhibit “A” (redlined) and a clean version
shown in Exhibit “B”.

BACKGROUND
On April 6, 2021, the City Council found that a compelling, countervailing public interest exists in
enacting a temporary land use ordinance (see Ordinance 21-14) to allow the City administration time
to identify, investigate, evaluate, and define how the natural hazards associated with steep slope
foothill property areas should be addressed and regulated to protect the health, safety and welfare
of all the citizens of Sandy City, and to allow the City Council adequate time to evaluate and enact
appropriate regulations. The affected area (as shown in the map below) is restricted from any new
development or applications for up to six months. Departments that are involved with the review
process have contributed and gave input on the suggested changes.
Amendments Related to Development Moratorium – CA06232021-0006081                      Page - 2 -




ANALYSIS
From the collective analysis of several departments, Community Development staff has proposed
several changes to two chapters of the Land Development Code to address the concerns stated in
Ordinance 21-14, the Sensitive Area Overlay (SAO) Zone (Chapter 15) and Residential Development
Standards (Chapter 20), in particular the Planned Unit Development (PUD) Section of that chapter.
These alterations do not represent sweeping changes but rather refinements to our existing code
requirements that provide further clarity to existing code and introduces some new requirements.

The main objectives of the proposed amendments to the SAO Zone include:
   • Drainage and Debris Flow Corridors
   • Earthquake Fault Lines and Affected Areas
   • Rockfall Hazards
   • Requirements to Alter Hillsides for Road/Driveway Access
   • Technical Dispute Resolutions
   • Better Describe Protected Hillsides
   • Cut/Fill and Retaining Walls
   • Comprehensive Sensitive Lands Map
   • Clarify Exceptions on Previously Disturbed Slopes

The main objectives of the proposed amendments to the PUD Zone include:
   • Open Space Requirements
   • Clustering of Development
   • Compatibility to Adjacent Uses
   • Clarification on Density Calculation
   • PUD Building Height Clarification
   • Unique Standards Related to SAO Affected Lands

These amendments affect areas within the SAO mapped areas and the lands zoned PUD.
Amendments Related to Development Moratorium – CA06232021-0006081                                 Page - 3 -


NON-CONFORMING USES
This Code Amendment would not create any non-conforming use situations.

LAND DEVELOPMENT CODE PURPOSE COMPLIANCE
The Sandy City Land Development Code in 21-1-3 lists the criteria explaining the intent and
purpose of the Ordinance. The purpose is:

       21-1-3 Purpose
       This Code is adopted to implement Sandy City’s General Plan and to promote: public
       health, safety, convenience, aesthetics, welfare; efficient use of land; sustainable land use
       and building practices; transportation options and accessibility; crime prevention; timely
       citizen involvement in land use decision making; and efficiency in development review
       and land use administration. Specifically, this Code is established to promote the
       following purposes:

       1. General
          a. To facilitate the orderly growth and development of Sandy City.
          b. To facilitate adequate provision for transportation, water, sewage, schools, parks, and
             other public requirements.
          c. To stabilize property values.
          d. To enhance the economic well-being of Sandy City and its inhabitants.

       2. Implementation of General Plan
          To coordinate and ensure the implementation of the City’s General Plan through effective
          execution of development review requirements, adequate facility and services review and
          other goals, policies, or programs contained in the General Plan.

       3. Comprehensive, Consistent and Equitable Regulations
          To establish a system of fair, comprehensive, consistent and equitable regulations, standards
          and procedures for review and approval of all proposed land development within the City.

       4. Efficiently and Effectively Managed Procedures
          a. To promote fair procedures that are efficient and effective in terms of time and expense.
          b. To be effective and responsive in terms of the allocation of authority and delegation of
              powers and duties among ministerial, appointed, and elected officials.
          c. To foster a positive customer service attitude and to respect the rights of all applicants
              and affected citizens.

The proposed code amendments would promote the orderly growth and development of Sandy City.
It would also further fair, comprehensive, consistent and equitable regulations, standards and
procedures for review and approval of all proposed land development within the City.

GENERAL PLAN COMPLIANCE
The General Plan has several goals and policies that would be furthered by these proposed
amendments such as:
   • Provide for orderly and efficient development which will be compatible with the natural
       and built environment.
   • Provide standards, guidelines and criteria having the effect of minimizing flooding, erosion,
       and other environmental hazards and to protect natural scenic character of the hillsides.
   • Preserve, enhance, and integrate natural open spaces into the urban fabric of Sandy City.
Amendments Related to Development Moratorium – CA06232021-0006081                           Page - 4 -


STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission forward a positive recommendation to amend Title
21, Chapter 15, Sensitive Area Overlay Zone and Title 21, Chapter 20, Residential Development
Standards, of the Sandy Municipal Code, as shown in Exhibit “A,” based on the following findings:

1.     Compliance with the Purpose of the Land Development Code by promoting the orderly
       development and creating consistency and equitable standards in Sandy City.
2.     Compliance with the Goals and Policies of the General Plan by: providing for orderly and
       efficient development which will be compatible with the natural and built environment;
       providing standards, guidelines and criteria having the effect of minimizing flooding, erosion,
       and other environmental hazards; and to protect natural scenic character of the hillsides, and
       preserving, enhancing, and integrating natural open spaces into the urban fabric of Sandy
       City.


Planner:




Mike Wilcox
Zoning Administrator

File Name: S:\USERS\PLN\STAFFRPT\2021\CA06232021-0006081- EAST OF WASATCH MORITORIUM AMENDMENTS - SAO &
PUD\STAFF REPORT.DOCX
