                                   MEMORANDUM
                                            December 2, 2021


 To:            Planning Commission
 From:          Community Development Department
 Subject:       The Village at Dimple Dell                                                     SPR#04-31
                Amend Conditions of Approval                                                 MU, SAO Zone
                1500 East 10600 South
                [Community #22]


NOTICE: This item has been noticed to property owners within 500 feet of the subject area, posted on the
        property, and on the City and Utah Public Notice websites.


                                     PROPERTY CASE HISTORY
  Case Number                                           Case Summary
 R#03-13               The Garbett Rezone changed the zone of this subject property and the lands
                       that have been developed to the east, totaling 14.76 acres. The zone changed
                       from Professional Office (PO) to Mixed Use (MU). This was approved in
                       May of 2004.
 SPR#04-31             Previous Master Plan and site plan approval for the Village at Dimple Dell
                       project. It consisted of a mixture of townhomes, apartments/condos, retail, and
                       office space. The Planning Commission granted preliminary approval on May
                       19, 2005. This included a total of 173 residential units and 52,580 sq. ft. of
                       (commercial office/retail). This development was split into 2 phases. Only
                       Phase 1 proceeded to Final approval and built 70 townhomes. The second
                       phase was never constructed.
 S#06-18               A plat was recorded for phase 1 of the Village at Dimple Dell development
                       that created 70 units.
 SPR08032021-          Ridges at Dimple Dell was granted preliminary approval by the Planning
 006125                Commission on November 18, 2020. This approval consisted of 49 townhome
                       units and 1 commercial building (2,740 sq. ft.) built on approximately 6 acres
                       of land that was originally intended to be phase 2 of the Village at Dimple
                       Dell development.
The Village at Dimple Dell – Amend Conditions of Approval SPR#04-31                             Page - 2 -


REQUEST
Brad Reynolds Construction has submitted a request to amend the conditions of approval of the
Village at Dimple Dell project. The applicant submitted a site plan and updated mixed use master
plan review of a proposed development known as the Ridges at Dimple Dell. This proposal did
not include shared amenities with the first phase of the Villages at Dimple Dell. Their site plan
proposal includes the undeveloped part of the mixed-use master planned development known
as the Village at Dimple Dell. They are seeking to be released from some of the requirements of
that original site plan approval by altering the conditions imposed by the Planning Commission

BACKGROUND
The proposed project is zoned Mixed Use (MU) and is also subject to the Sensitive Area Overlay
(SAO) zone. It is borded by the Village at Dimple Dell townhome project to the east (also zoned
MU). To the west is the Lone Peak Market and Canyon View Cleaners (zoned Community
Commercial (CC)). On the south side of the project are residential homes in the Bell Canyon Acres
subdivision (zoned SD(R-1-30A)). To the north, the property is borded by the Dimple Dell
Regional Park (zoned SD(OS)).

NOTICE
Notices were mailed to property owners within a 500-foot radius of the subject parcel and all
property owners of the Village at Dimple Dell development to notify them of the Planning
Commission meeting.

ANALYSIS
The applicant is seeking removal or alteration of condition #10 of the Village at Dimple Dell
Mixed Use Development that states the following:

   10. That the amenities illustrated on the preliminary plan be a requirement of this development. That
       the clubhouse and pool area either be put in with Phase I or bonded for with the initial phase of the
       project. Also, that the developer work with staff to provide sidewalk cross-section drawings for
       the streetscape/furniture and plaza designs for final approval.

The amenities were not built in phase 1 and a bond was posted by the original developer. Brad
Reynolds Construction has proposed to provide a financial contribution to the Village at Dimple
Dell HOA instead of providing shared amenities between the developments. The existing Village
at Dimple Dell Home Owners Association (HOA) have voted to extinguish the master association
agreement betweeen the two projects and release the expectation of a clubhouse and pool being
provided to their development. With the approval of the Ridges at Dimple Dell development,
there would be no shared amenties between the developments, but would have shared
maintenance of certain private roads and allow for cross access for pedestrian and vehicular
traffic across their private streets and sidewalks.

CONCERNS
Staff has no concerns regarding this proposal as submitted.

STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission amend condition #10 of the Villages at Dimple
Dell Mixed Use Site and Master Plan, located at approximately 1500 East 10600 South, to read
as follows:
The Village at Dimple Dell – Amend Conditions of Approval SPR#04-31                                 Page - 3 -


10.     That the amenities currently constructed in phase 1 be the only required amenities of
        this development. That phase 2 shall have their own amenities as required by that
        project development approval.

Planner:




Mike Wilcox
Zoning Administrator

File Name: S:\USERS\PLN\STAFFRPT\2021\SPR08032021-006125_RIDGES AT DIMPLE DELL\STAFF REPORT - AMEND SPR-0431.DOCX
