            S AN DY C I T Y C O M M U N I T Y D E V E L O P M E N T
                                                                                          JAMES SORENSEN COMMUNITY
                                                                                             DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR

                                                                                               MONICA ZOLTANSKI
                                                                                                    MAYOR

                                                                                               CLIFFORD STRACHAN
                                                                                          CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER




                                 MEMORANDUM
                                              July 7, 2022


 To:           Planning Commission
 From:         Community Development Department
 Subject:      Wrangler Trailhead (Preliminary Site Plan Review and            SPR05132022-006324
               Conditional Use Permit)                                         CUP05132022-006325
               10305 South 1300 East                                                    10.38 Acres
               [Community #17, Willow Canyon]                                         Zone: SD(OS)


HEARING NOTICE: This item has been noticed to property owners within 500 feet of the subject area. A
                   physical sign was also posted on the property.


                                   PROPERTY CASE HISTORY
   Case Number                                    Case Summary
 CUP# 86-18              Planning Commission approved a conditional use permit for Wrangler
                         Trailhead

REQUEST
Mr. Daniel Sonntag, representing Salt Lake County Parks and Recreation, has submitted an
application for a conditional use permit and preliminary site plan review for an improvement
project of the proposed Wrangler Trailhead. The plans include replacing the existing restrooms
with new facilities including a water fountain with a pet station, two (2) ADA compliant paved
parking stalls, a trailhead kiosk, four (4) pavilions which will be salvaged but refurbished where
necessary, four (4) new picnic tables, and a relocated metal horse hitching post.

BACKGROUND
The proposed project is located adjacent to an access road to a shopping center. The property is
zoned SD(OS) (Special Development District, Open Space Zone). ‘Public and private parks and
recreation areas’ are a conditional use within the zone. To the north is a shopping center that
includes a grocery store and a fitness center in the CC (Planned Center – Community District)
Zone. Dimple Dell Park extends to the west, south, and east in the SD(OS) Zone.
Wrangler Trailhead – SPR05132022-006324 & CUP05132022-006325                                Page - 2 -


NOTICE
Notices were mailed to property owners within a 500-foot radius of the subject property to notify
them of the Planning Commission meeting. Additionally, a physical sign was posted on the
property. The applicant also held a neighborhood meeting on June 15, 2022. A concern was voiced
during the meeting about the desire for a hitching post and mounting block at the trailhead site. A
relocated metal hitching post is being proposed with the improvements of the site. A full summary
from the neighborhood meeting is attached to this staff report.

CONDITIONAL USE ANALYSIS

Conditional Use consideration for: ‘Public and private parks and recreation areas’ in the
SD(OS) Special Development District.

Under the Sandy City Development Code, the Planning Commission, through the Conditional Use
process, can: approve Conditional Uses if no mitigation of reasonably anticipated detrimental
impacts is necessary; approve Conditional Uses, subject to reasonable conditions designed to
mitigate or eliminate reasonably anticipated detrimental impacts; or deny Conditional Uses, if it
is determined that reasonably anticipated detrimental impacts cannot be adequately mitigated. The
burden of mitigating these impacts or effects is the responsibility of the applicant and not of the
municipality or adjacent property owners (Section 21-33-04).

Compliance with Section 21-33-04 Conditional Use Permit:
In order to achieve compliance with the standards set forth herein, the City may impose conditions
that address these standards:

1.    Size, configuration and location of the site and the proposed site plan layout.

The layout is properly designed and located. The site is adequately sized for the proposed new
amenities.

2.    Proposed site ingress and egress to existing and proposed roads and streets.

The ingress and egress to and from the site will be adequate for use by these facilities.

3.     The adequacy, provision, relocation or protection of public facilities and amenities,
including roads and street, culinary water, secondary water, sanitary sewer, storm drainage, public
safety and fire protections, and other utilities.

The public facilities that already exist at the site will support the additional amenities that have
been proposed with this application.

 4.    Design, location and amount of off-street parking, loading areas and solid waste disposal
 and collection areas.

 Adequate vehicle parking will be provided by the existing gravel surface parking area on the site.
 The only paved parking improvements are for the two (2) proposed handicap parking stalls.
Wrangler Trailhead – SPR05132022-006324 & CUP05132022-006325                               Page - 3 -


5.    Site circulation patterns for vehicular, pedestrian and other traffic.

Site circulation will be sufficient for the use as designed on the site plan. The single access to the
trailhead area is provided by the road that provides access to 1300 East and to the shopping
center to the north.

6.     Mass, size, number, location, design, exterior features, materials, and colors of buildings,
structures and other facilities.

The proposed restrooms will be constructed of CMU block and will be painted a light concrete
color with gray doors and door frames. They will be located on the west end of the trailhead area
and will be accessed from the east side. A water fountain with a blue pet station will be present
on the side of the restrooms. There are also four (4) shade structures that are proposed to be
salvaged but refurbished as needed, including welding new metal posts down to the depth of the
footing. The roofs are to be painted with two coats of ‘Fired Brick’ Sherwin Williams paint.

7.     The location and design of all site features, including proposed signage, lighting, and refuse
collection.

Site signage is not included in this review but must be by separate application. There is no lighting
proposed for the site. Because the trailhead is not adjacent to a public road Sandy City cannot
require lighting. However, staff recommends that lighting be installed to increase safety and
visibility in the early mornings and evenings.

8.    The provision of useable open space, public features, and recreational amenities.

The proposed improvements include two (2) handicap accessible parking stalls. Four (4) shade
structures and new restroom facilities with a water fountain and pet station will be available to
the public. A trailhead kiosk and a relocated metal horse hitching post are also planned.

9.     Fencing, screening and landscape treatments, and other features designed to increase the
attractiveness and safety of the site and protect adjoining owners from noise, visual and other
impacts.

The site landscaping will be installed as part of the corresponding site plan approval as shown
on the landscape plan attached to this staff report. The existing two rail wood fencing will be
salvaged, and 31 feet of additional two rail wood fencing is to be installed to match the existing
fencing. The new fencing will be installed in the northeast corner of the property. This standard
will be met.

Staff considers the lack of proposed lighting to be an area of concern regarding public safety. We
recommend that the applicant work with staff to mitigate this concern. Should lighting not be
incorporated in the design at this time, then the site will be reviewed upon legitimate complaint.

10. Measures directed at minimizing or eliminating possible nuisance factors including, but
not limited to noise, vibrations, smoke, dust, dirt, debris, plant materials, odors, gases, noxious
matter, heat, glare, electromagnetic disturbances, and radiation.
Wrangler Trailhead – SPR05132022-006324 & CUP05132022-006325                              Page - 4 -



This facility will be subject to the noise limits imposed by the County Health Department. There
will not be any unusual vibration, smoke, dust, and debris or plant materials nuisance factors
after development of the site.

11. Measures designed to protect the natural features of the site, including wetlands and
drainage ways, ground water protection, soils, wildlife and plant life.

There is approximately 1,077 square feet of a hydroseeded erosion control blanket proposed on
the site. This is located along the south boundary of the site. This standard will be met.

12.    The regulation of operating hours for activities affecting normal schedules and functions;

The trailhead opens at 6:00 a.m. daily, and closes at 10:00 p.m. Closing is enforceable by the
police who patrol the area. The operating hours are reasonable for the area.

13. Identifying a time for regular review and monitoring, as determined necessary, to ensure
the use continues to operate in compliance with all conditions and requirements of approval.

The conditional use will be reviewable upon legitimate complaint, and any new impacts arising
can then be addressed by the Planning Commission, through the imposition of additional
mitigating measures.

14. Measures to ensure compliance with all conditions and requirements of approval including
but not limited to bonds, letters of credit, improvement agreements, the agreements to conditions,
road maintenance funds, and restrictive covenants.

Measures to ensure compliance will be enforced by the Sandy City staff through detailed site plan
review, upon citizen complaint or by staff observance and will be adequate to mitigate potential
violations of approval conditions.

15. Such other conditions determined reasonable and necessary by the City to allow the
operation of the proposed conditional use, at the proposed location in compliance with the
requirements of this Code.

To mitigate any potential negative impacts to the City and the neighborhood, staff suggest the
conditions listed at the bottom of this report in the Staff Recommendation for the Conditional Use
Permit, numbers 1 to 2.

SITE PLAN ANALYSIS

Overview:
The proposed Wrangler Trailhead improvements include replacing the existing restrooms with
new restroom facilities including a water fountain with a pet station, two (2) ADA compliant paved
handicap parking stalls, a trailhead kiosk, four (4) pavilions which will be salvaged but refurbished
by welding new metal posts down to the depth of the footing, as well as any other needed
Wrangler Trailhead – SPR05132022-006324 & CUP05132022-006325                              Page - 5 -


refurbishment deemed necessary, four (4) new picnic tables, and a relocated metal horse hitching
post.

Access:
The single access to the trailhead area is provided by the road that provides access to 1300 East
and the shopping center to the north.

Parking:
The existing parking lot will remain gravel. Two (2) new paved ADA compliant handicap parking
stalls are proposed.

Landscaping:
The applicant has submitted a full landscape plan for the site. Staff has found that it generally
meets the requirements of Chapter 21-25 entitled Landscaping Standards. The plans reflect the
planting of eleven trees, a variety of shrubs throughout the project, and new sod around the
restroom facilities.

CONCERNS
Staff has the following concerns regarding this proposal as submitted by the applicant:

   1. Lighting. There is no lighting proposed for the trailhead project. Staff recommends that
      lighting be installed to increase visibility and safety, especially during early morning and
      late evening hours.

STAFF RECOMMENDATION #1 (CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT):
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission grant the Conditional Use Permit request to allow
the expansion of “Public and private parks and recreation areas” in the SD(OS) Zone for the
Wrangler Trailhead project located at approximately 10305 South 1300 East, based on the findings
and subject to the following conditions:

FINDINGS:

 1. That the various City Departments and Divisions, including the City Engineer and the
    Transportation Engineer, have preliminarily approved the proposed related site plan.

 2. That the proposed land use request has been reviewed by staff considering the 15 standards
    contained in the Sandy City Development Code, 21-33-04, Conditional Use Process, and
    appropriate and adequate mitigation measures will be implemented or will be imposed as
    deemed necessary to minimize impacts to the surrounding community, subject to the
    following conditions:

Conditions:

   1. That the Conditional Use Permit for expansion of an existing “Public and private parks
      and recreation areas”, be reviewed upon future legitimate citizen complaint or staff
      observation of non-compliance with conditions.
Wrangler Trailhead – SPR05132022-006324 & CUP05132022-006325                                      Page - 6 -


    2. That the applicant be responsible to meet all provisions of the Sandy City Development
       Code and all conditions of approval that are included in this report and as may be imposed
       by the Planning Commission to mitigate the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of
       the proposed uses.

STAFF RECOMMENDATION #2 (SITE PLAN):
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission determine that preliminary site plan review is
complete for the proposed Wrangler Trailhead project, located at approximately 10305 South
1300 East, based upon the following findings and conditions:

Findings:

    1. That the proposed project meets or will meet all the applicable requirements of the Sandy
       City Development Code.

    2. That the construction of two (2) paved handicap parking stalls and the additional proposed
       amenities will better serve residents wishing to use the trail system.

Conditions:

    1. That the applicant complies with each department’s comments and redlines throughout the
       preliminary and final review process and that all issues be resolved before final site plan
       approval.

    2. That all City provisions, codes and ordinances are adhered to during the review,
       construction and operations process of this building.

    3. That all signage be reviewed and approved under a separate permit and be in conformance
       with City code.

   Optional:

    4. That the applicant work with staff to add site lighting to improve visibility and safety of
       this trailhead.


Planner:



________________________________
Craig Evans
File Name: S:\USERS\PLN\STAFFRPT\2022\SPR05132022-006324 WRANGER TRAILHEAD\PLANNING COMMISSION\STAFF REPORT -
SITE PLAN - WRANGLER TRAILHEAD.DOCX
