                              MEMORANDUM
                                       February 3, 2022


 To:         Planning Commission
 From:       Community Development Department
 Subject:    Carter Hillside                                              SPX10042021-006160
             (Special Exception for Alteration of 30% Slope)                          .54 Acres
             2 Pepperwood Drive                                            PUD(1.62), SAO Zone
             [Community #28, Pepper Dell]


NOTICE: This item has been noticed to property owners within 500 feet of the subject area, and
        on the City and Utah Public Notice websites.




                                PROPERTY CASE HISTORY
   Case Number                                       Case Summary
 CASE 06-21-016713       In June of 2021, a code enforcement case was opened after receiving a
                         complaint regarding a retaining wall being built on the property
                         without a permit. It was found that a wall was in the process of
                         construction. It was determined that the wall would require a building
                         permit due to being over 4’ in overall height. It was also found that the
                         wall was within a protected area within the Sensitive Area Overlay,
                         which would require Planning Commission approval.


DESCRIPTION OF REQUEST
The applicants, Randy and Heidi Carter, are requesting review for a special exception to approve
an alteration (grading, cut, and fill) to a continuous 30% or greater slope within the Sensitive
Area Overlay Zone on the property located at 2 Pepperwood Drive. The applicant is requesting
that the Planning Commission approve the modification to build a retaining wall within the slope
to support and stabilize the foundations of their existing home and deck. The applicant’s state
that they have experienced erosion around their home’s foundations, in particular the deck
foundation. The full “Applicant Letter” to the Planning Commission describing their request is
attached.
Carter Special Exception - SPX10042021-006160                                          Page - 2 -

NOTICE
Notices were mailed to property owners
within a 500-foot radius of the subject
property as per Sandy City Land
Development Code requirements, to notify
them of the Planning Commission meeting.
No neighborhood meeting was held for this
application.

BACKGROUND & SITE CONDITIONS
The subject property is zoned PUD(1.62)
Zone and is within the Sensitive Area
Overlay (SAO) Zone (see attached map
exhibits). It is bordered on all sides by other
single-family homes in the same zone. The
subject property is approximately .54 acres
in size and currently contains an existing
single-family home.

The lot was created with the Pepperwood Phase 5 Subdivision Plat and was recorded on January
5, 1979. The subdivision plat mentioned above did not show any areas of 30% slope but do make
mention of the Hillside Ordinance that was in place at the time in the Conditions of Approval
                                                        from the Planning Commission. This
                                                        Hillside Ordinance was enacted in
                                                        1978. A major amendment which
                                                        closely resembles the code we have
                                                        today was adopted in 2007. Past
                                                        practice did not pictorially identify
                                                        slope areas on plats. This lot does have
                                                        areas of 30% slope and natural
                                                        vegetation on the lot.

                                                        The existing home on this property is
                                                        the original footprint of the home
                                                        when the property was first built
                                                        upon. A building permit file indicates
                                                        that this was approved to be built
                                                        right up to this hillside area, including
                                                        the covered deck that exists today.

ANALYSIS
The applicant has presented grading plans, retaining wall engineering and a revegetation plan to
restore the disturbed areas of protected slope. They are seeking review by the Planning
Commission to approve these grading alterations to the hillside area and allow them to finish
construction of a retaining wall within a hillside area.

The SAO zone has a provision that states:
Carter Special Exception - SPX10042021-006160                                                               Page - 3 -


Sec. 21-15-4. Development Standards for Sensitive Areas.
(b)    Development Standards for All Sensitive Areas.
      (6) Grading, Cuts and Fill.
            f.    No grading, cuts, fills, or terracing will be allowed on a continuous hillside of 30 percent or
                  greater slope, crest (upslope or downslope) unless otherwise determined by the Planning
                  Commission upon recommendation of the Director and City Engineer.
The Planning Commission has the authority to review and approve any alteration to a 30% slope
upon receiving a recommendation from staff.

In this instance, the City issued permits to for the original home and placement of the covered
deck in its current proximity to the 30%+ hillside. Staff has reviewed the engineered reports and
drawings. It seems reasonably necessary to build this retaining wall to ensure the structural
integrity of the existing foundations. The City Engineer has recommended approval of the special
exception to approve the proposed retaining wall.

STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission approve the special exception for alterations of
a continuous hillside of 30 percent or greater slope for the property located at 2 Pepperwood
Drive, based on the following findings and subject to the following conditions:

Findings:

      1. The City Engineer finds the existing foundations of the home will be stabilized with the
         proposed retaining wall.

      2. The City Engineer finds that the location of the wall will only have minor encroachments and
         disturbance to the hillside area of the lot.

      3. The proposed plans include a revegetation plan that will restabilize the disturbance areas
         created by the construction.

      4. The City Engineer and Community Development Director recommend approval of the
         special exception.

Conditions:

      1. That the curved section of the partially constructed retaining wall be removed and that
         the wall tie back into the existing wall near the existing steps.

      2. That the applicant revegetates the disturbance areas per the proposed landscape plan.

Planner:



Mike Wilcox
Zoning Administrator
File Name: S:\USERS\PLN\STAFFRPT\2021\SPX10042021-006160_CARTER HILLSIDE\STAFF REPORT.DOCX
