            S AN DY C I T Y C O M M U N I T Y D E V E L O P M E N T
                                                                                          JAMES SORENSEN COMMUNITY
                                                                                             DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR

                                                                                               MONICA ZOLTANSKI
                                                                                                    MAYOR

                                                                                               CLIFFORD STRACHAN
                                                                                          CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER




                                 MEMORANDUM
                                              July 7, 2022


 To:           Planning Commission
 From:         Community Development Department
 Subject:      300 East Trailhead (Preliminary Site Plan Review &               SPR05132022-006318
               Conditional Use Permit)                                          CUP05132022-006319
               321 East 10195 South                                                        5.0 Acres
               [Community #5]                                                          Zone: SD(OS)


HEARING NOTICE: This item has been noticed to property owners within 500 feet of the subject area. A
                   physical sign was also posted on the property.


                                   PROPERTY CASE HISTORY
    Case Number                                      Case Summary
                         Sandy 5 Acre Plat recorded May 19, 1892
 SPR# 03-08              Planning Commission determined that site plan review for the Sandy City
                         Dog Park was complete.
 SPR-03-17-5231          Planning Commission determined that site plan review for the Dog Park
                         Parking Lot was complete.

REQUEST
Mr. Daniel Sonntag, representing Salt Lake County Parks and Recreation, has submitted an
application for a conditional use permit and preliminary site plan review for an improvement
project of the proposed 300 East Trailhead. The plan contains a new trailhead parking lot, trailhead
kiosk, improved maintenance access, and fire department access. These improvements will be
connected to the existing parking for the city’s dog park. It also proposes a cul-de-sac that will
serve as a terminus for 300 East and provide a second point of access to the parking area.

BACKGROUND
The proposed project is located at the south end of 300 East, at approximately 10195 South. The
property is zoned SD(OS) (Special Development District, Open Space Zone). ‘Public and private
parks and recreation areas’ are a conditional use within the zone. To the north are single-family
homes in the PUD(5.5) Zone. To the east are single-family homes in the R-1-8 Zone. Dimple Dell
300 East Trailhead – SPR05132022-006318 & CUP05132022-006319                                Page - 2 -


Park, in the SD(OS) Zone also continues on the east and south sides of the subject property. To
the west is the Sandy City Dog Park, also located in the SD(OS) Zone.

NOTICE
Notices were mailed to property owners within a 500-foot radius of the subject property to notify
them of the Planning Commission meeting. Additionally, a physical sign was posted on the
property. The applicant also held a neighborhood meeting on June 15, 2022. Concerns were voiced
during the meeting about asking about speed mitigation measures along 300 East. Tree
preservation was an especially big topic of concern, and there were also comments about possible
unwanted activity increasing if the improvements are made. A full summary from the
neighborhood meeting is attached to this staff report. Numerous emails were received from
residents after the neighborhood meeting which primarily expressed concerns over the
preservation of the existing trees. The emails are attached to this staff report as well.

CONDITIONAL USE ANALYSIS

Conditional Use consideration for: ‘Public and private parks and recreation areas’ in the
SD(OS) Special Development District.

Under the Sandy City Development Code, the Planning Commission, through the Conditional Use
process, can: approve Conditional Uses if no mitigation of reasonably anticipated detrimental
impacts is necessary; approve Conditional Uses, subject to reasonable conditions designed to
mitigate or eliminate reasonably anticipated detrimental impacts; or deny Conditional Uses, if it
is determined that reasonably anticipated detrimental impacts cannot be adequately mitigated. The
burden of mitigating these impacts or effects is the responsibility of the applicant and not of the
municipality or adjacent property owners (Section 21-33-04).

Compliance with Section 21-33-04 Conditional Use Permit:
In order to achieve compliance with the standards set forth herein, the City may impose conditions
that address these standards:

1.    Size, configuration and location of the site and the proposed site plan layout.

The layout is properly designed and located. The site is adequately sized for the proposed new
parking lot and cul-de-sac.

2.    Proposed site ingress and egress to existing and proposed roads and streets.

The ingress and egress to and from the site will be adequate for use by these facilities. The cul-de-
sac is required due to the total length of the existing parking lot and the existing street network. It
provides a second point of access to the trailhead parking lot area. It will serve as a proper
terminus to allow sufficient access and turn-around ability for emergency services vehicles and
the public.

3.     The adequacy, provision, relocation or protection of public facilities and amenities,
including roads and street, culinary water, secondary water, sanitary sewer, storm drainage, public
safety and fire protections, and other utilities.
300 East Trailhead – SPR05132022-006318 & CUP05132022-006319                               Page - 3 -



The public facilities that already exist at the site are generally adequate, with the exception of the
retention area, which will need to be enlarged to handle the drainage of the existing parking lot
and the new improvements combined. This requirement has been added as a condition of approval.

4.    Design, location and amount of off-street parking, loading areas and solid waste disposal
and collection areas.

Adequate vehicle parking will be provided by the surface parking on the site. An additional 15
public parking spaces will be provided, bringing the total number of parking stalls to 41.

5.     Site circulation patterns for vehicular, pedestrian and other traffic.

Site circulation will be sufficient for the use as designed on the site plan. Due to the proposed cul-
de-sac, access to the surface parking lot will be available from a northern access point, and also
a southern access point through the cul-de-sac.

6.     Mass, size, number, location, design, exterior features, materials, and colors of buildings,
structures and other facilities.

No buildings or structures exist or are proposed at the site.

7.     The location and design of all site features, including proposed signage, lighting, and refuse
collection.

The cul-de-sac and new parking lot are located approximately 225 feet from the single streetlight
in the project area. A new streetlight will need to be installed, as 300 East is being extended
southward using the cul-de-sac. The Police Department has requested a photometric plan for this
project. A condition of approval has been added to the staff report to mitigate this issue. Site
signage is not included in this review but must be by separate application.

8.     The provision of useable open space, public features, and recreational amenities.

The proposed additional parking lot will make available 15 additional parking spaces for public
use of the trailhead and dog park.

9.     Fencing, screening and landscape treatments, and other features designed to increase the
attractiveness and safety of the site and protect adjoining owners from noise, visual and other
impacts.

The site landscaping will be installed as part of the corresponding site plan approval as shown
on the landscape plan attached to this staff report. Additionally, the existing gate and posts will
be relocated to the south of the parking lot and cul-de-sac to allow pedestrian and vehicular
access (when deemed necessary) to the area. This standard will be met.
300 East Trailhead – SPR05132022-006318 & CUP05132022-006319                             Page - 4 -


10. Measures directed at minimizing or eliminating possible nuisance factors including, but
not limited to noise, vibrations, smoke, dust, dirt, debris, plant materials, odors, gases, noxious
matter, heat, glare, electromagnetic disturbances, and radiation.

This facility will be subject to the noise limits imposed by the County Health Department. There
will not be any unusual vibration, smoke, dust, and debris or plant materials nuisance factors
after development of the site.

11. Measures designed to protect the natural features of the site, including wetlands and
drainage ways, ground water protection, soils, wildlife and plant life.

This standard is not generally applicable.

12.    The regulation of operating hours for activities affecting normal schedules and functions;

The trailhead opens at 6:00 a.m. daily, and closes at 10:00 p.m. Closing is enforceable by the
police who patrol the area. The operating hours are reasonable for the area.

13. Identifying a time for regular review and monitoring, as determined necessary, to ensure
the use continues to operate in compliance with all conditions and requirements of approval.

The conditional use will be reviewable upon legitimate complaint, and any new impacts arising
can then be addressed by the Planning Commission, through the imposition of additional
mitigating measures.

14. Measures to ensure compliance with all conditions and requirements of approval including
but not limited to bonds, letters of credit, improvement agreements, the agreements to conditions,
road maintenance funds, and restrictive covenants.

Measures to ensure compliance will be enforced by the Sandy City staff through detailed site plan
review, upon citizen complaint or by staff observance and will be adequate to mitigate potential
violations of approval conditions.

15. Such other conditions determined reasonable and necessary by the City to allow the
operation of the proposed conditional use, at the proposed location in compliance with the
requirements of this Code.

To mitigate any potential negative impacts to the City and the neighborhood, staff suggest the
conditions listed at the bottom of this report in the Staff Recommendation for the Conditional Use
Permit, numbers 1 to 4.

SITE PLAN ANALYSIS

Overview:
The area near the proposed 300 East Trailhead currently consists of a surface parking lot with 26
public parking stalls. It provides parking for the Sandy City Dog Park, and is also used for access
to a number of trails in the area as well. The proposed project will add additional parking with 15
300 East Trailhead – SPR05132022-006318 & CUP05132022-006319                                Page - 5 -


parking spaces, bringing the total to 41. The project also proposes to construct a cul-de-sac that
extends 300 East southward, and adjoins the new parking lot area.

Access:
Access to the existing parking lot is located at the north end from 300 East. With the proposed
improvements, there will be a cul-de-sac constructed on the south end of 300 East. The cul-de-sac
will connect to the new and existing parking lot area so that there will be a total of two (2) accesses
to the parking areas.

Parking:
The existing trailhead parking lot contains 26 parking stalls. The proposed additional parking lot
will create an additional 15 parking spaces. Altogether, the 41 spaces will be sufficient to provide
parking for both the adjacent trail system as well as the Sandy City Dog Park. The new parking
stalls will be 18 feet long and 9 feet wide. A typical parking stall is 20 feet long, but 18 feet is
acceptable by ordinance when it is adjacent to landscaping or a six-foot sidewalk. The parking
dimensions proposed are adequate.

Landscaping:
The applicant has submitted a full landscape plan for the site. Staff has found that it generally
meets the requirements of Chapter 21-25 entitled Landscaping Standards. The plans reflect the
planting of six trees and a variety of bushes.

CONCERNS
Staff has the following concerns regarding this proposal as submitted by the applicant:

   1. Landscaping. The concept plan shows six (6) trees planted in the new project area. One
      tree in particular is located on the south end of the sidewalk and landscape peninsula that
      separates the proposed parking lot from the new cul-de-sac. This tree would obstruct
      visibility for pedestrian/vehicle interactions. A condition of approval has been added that
      the tree be relocated to a place that does not interfere with visibility or put public safety at
      risk.

       Additionally, several emails have been received from concerned residents regarding their
       desire to preserve the existing trees. All emails are attached to this staff report. The demo
       plan submitted with the application shows the planned removal of two (2) small, and three
       (3) large, existing trees. Both the Parks & Recreation Director and the City Urban Forester
       believe that it is in the public interest to remove these invasive, and generally undesirable
       trees in return for the added public safety that will be realized with the addition of a cul-
       de-sac to allow emergency services better access and turn-around ability.

       The landscape plan shows that six (6) trees will be planted to replace the removed trees.
       The trees will take several years to mature and provide shade. Viability of the trees will
       be monitored at different points of time after the project is completed. Along with
       inspections by the County, City staff will also inspect the trees one year after construction
       is complete to ensure that the trees are still viable. Those that are not must be replaced.
300 East Trailhead – SPR05132022-006318 & CUP05132022-006319                             Page - 6 -


   2. Lighting. The proposed parking lot and cul-de-sac are 225 feet away from the single
      streetlight in the area, which invites potential vandalism or burglaries. A condition of
      approval has been added to this staff report that an additional streetlight be installed. The
      exact location will be determined by the Public Utilities department.

   3. Drainage. The most recently submitted plans shows a retention pond that will adequately
      handle the drainage of the new parking lot. However, it does not take into account the
      storm water runoff created by the existing parking lot. The plan will have to be modified
      so that the retention area can sufficiently handle the drainage from both parking lots. A
      condition of approval has been added to this staff report requiring the applicant to work
      with the Public Utilities Department to adequately handle all drainage.

STAFF RECOMMENDATION #1 (CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT):
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission grant the Conditional Use Permit request to
allow the expansion of “Public and private parks and recreation areas” in the SD(OS) Zone for
the 300 East Trailhead project located at 321 East 10195 South, based on the findings and
subject to the following conditions:

Findings:

 1. That the various City Departments and Divisions, including the City Engineer and the
    Transportation Engineer, have preliminarily approved the proposed related site plan.

 2. That the proposed land use request has been reviewed by staff considering the 15 standards
    contained in the Sandy City Development Code, 21-33-04, Conditional Use Process, and
    appropriate and adequate mitigation measures will be implemented or will be imposed as
    deemed necessary to minimize impacts to the surrounding community, subject to the
    following four conditions:

Conditions:

   1. That the Conditional Use Permit for expansion of an existing “Public and private parks
      and recreation areas”, be reviewed upon future legitimate citizen complaint or staff
      observation of non-compliance with conditions.

   2. That the applicant be responsible to meet all provisions of the Sandy City Development
      Code and all conditions of approval that are included in this report and as may be
      imposed by the Planning Commission to mitigate the reasonably anticipated detrimental
      effects of the proposed uses.

   3. That the applicant works with the Public Utilities Department to design a retention area
      that adequately handles all site drainage.

   4. That the applicant provides a photometric plan of the site and installs a new streetlight
      with the proper location being determined by the Public Utilities Department.
300 East Trailhead – SPR05132022-006318 & CUP05132022-006319                                      Page - 7 -


STAFF RECOMMENDATION #2 (SITE PLAN):
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission determine that preliminary site plan review is
complete for the proposed 300 East Trailhead project, located at approximately 321 East 10195
South, based upon the following findings and conditions:

Findings:

    1. That the proposed project meets or will meet all the applicable requirements of the Sandy
       City Development Code.

    2. That the construction of an additional parking lot will serve more residents wishing to use
       the dog park and trail system.

    3. That the cul-de-sac will provide benefits to public safety with enhanced access for
       emergency services as well as improved turn-around ability.

Conditions:

    1. That the applicant complies with each department’s comments and redlines throughout the
       preliminary and final review process and that all issues be resolved before final site plan
       approval.

    2. That all City provisions, codes and ordinances are adhered to during the review,
       construction and operations process of this building.

    3. That all signage be reviewed and approved under a separate permit and be in conformance
       with City code.

    4. That “no parking” signs be placed along the proposed cul-de-sac to prohibit parking within
       the required turn-around area.


Planner:



________________________________
Craig Evans
File Name: S:\USERS\PLN\STAFFRPT\2022\SPR05132022-006318 300 EAST TRAILHEAD\PLANNING COMMISSION\STAFF REPORT -
SITE PLAN - 300 EAST TRAILHEAD.DOCX
