                                        S ANDY C I T Y C O M M U N I T Y D E V E L O P M E N T
                                                                                                                                        JAMES SORENSEN
                                                                                                                                     COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
                                                                                                                                           DIRECTOR

                                                                                                                                          MONICA ZOLTANSKI
                                                                                                                                              MAYOR

                                                                                                                                        SHANE E. PACE
                                                                                                                                CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER




                               Staff Report Memorandum
                                                    November 3, 2022


 To:             City Council via Planning Commission
 From:           Community Development Department
 Subject:        Code Amendments Related to Water Efficient                                                                    CA04182022-0006307
                 Landscaping Standards
                 Amend Title 21, Chapter 25, Landscaping Standards, and
                 Chapter 37, Definitions, of the Sandy Municipal Code

                 Amend portions of the Sandy City Standard Specifications                                                     MSC10272022-006431
                 and Details for Municipal Construction


 Hearing Notice: This item has been noticed on public websites at least 10 days prior to the Public Hearing.


Request
 On behalf of Sandy City, the Public Utilities Department is proposing amendments to Title 21, Chapter 25, Landscaping
 Standards, of the Sandy Municipal Code and portions of the Sandy City Standard Specifications & Details for Municipal
 Construction. These amendments have been reviewed by an interdepartmental team consisting of the Public Utilities,
 Community Development, Parks and Recreation, and Public Works Departments. The purpose of these amendments is to
 strengthen current landscaping requirements and incorporate new ones that will bring the city’s codes in line with more water
 efficient landscaping standards.

Background
 During the 2022 Utah Legislative session, the House Bill 282 was passed, which made several amendments related to
 waterwise landscaping, in particular:
   •   Public entities can’t prohibit waterwise landscaping
   •   Authorizes certain landscape requirements by a municipality
   •   Cities and HOAs can’t require turf/lawn in the park strip or areas less than eight feet (8’) wide
 There were other bills related to water conservation that were approved during the last legislative session, but those did not
 directly impact municipalities. Bills, such as House Bill 121, impose requirements of state-owned facilities that are more
 stringent and may signal further changes toward increased water conservation in the future.

 Currently, the Sandy Land Development Code does not conflict with these state mandated standards; however, more can
 be done to remove barriers from the development code for more waterwise landscaping practices. For example, the Central

   10000 Centennial P arkway      | S a n d y, U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   |   p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   |   f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8    |   s a n d y . u t a h . g ov
Amendments Related to Water Efficient Landscaping – CA04182022-0006307                                                                                      Page 2

 Utah Water Conservancy District (CUWCD) has crafted water efficient landscaping standards (Exhibit C) that are designed
 to update or replace landscaping ordinances that slow or restrict efforts to conserve water.

 Sandy City residents are currently eligible to receive grants from the CUWCD for the “Localscapes Rewards” and “Flip Your
 Strip” landscaping rebate programs. The CUWCD developed the rebate programs for homeowners who would like to
 convert their typical residential landscape to something attractive and more water efficient. The goal of these rebate programs
 is to offset some of the cost to implement water efficient landscaping and educate homeowners about the benefits and design
 process of well-planned waterwise landscapes. The Localscapes Rewards and Flip Your Strip rebate programs have been around
 for several years and became available to Sandy City in August of 2021.

 To ensure local communities incorporate waterwise landscaping standards into their local codes, the CUWCD will only
 offer the landscape incentive programs to cities that have adopted the required water efficient landscaping standards by the
 end of 2022. Starting January 1st, 2023, residents of cities that have not adopted the required water efficiency standards will
 no longer be eligible to apply for the rebate programs offered by CUWCD. The State is currently working on a landscape
 rebate program that will be available starting around March of 2023. The State’s program will also only be available to cities
 that have adopted these standards. Additional State and District funding may also be contingent on adoption of the required
 standards in the future.

Analysis
 The proposed code amendments to the Sandy Land Development Code incorporate all the water efficient landscaping
 standards crafted by the CUWCD; however, some of those standards are “required” to remain eligible for the landscaping
 rebate program and some of those standards are just “recommended” by the CUWCD, but not necessary for the rebate
 program. To distinguish this difference, a summary of the proposed code amendments is presented below. The specific
 amendments to the Land Development Code are included as Exhibit “A” (redlined version) and Exhibit “B” (final clean
 version). The “required” standards are highlighted in yellow, and the “recommended” standards are highlighted in light grey.
 Lastly, some of the proposed code amendments are non-substantive and are more for housekeeping purposes to organize and
 clarify the code. The code amendments that are more substantive in nature are described in the following analysis.

 Summary Description of Substantive Code Amendments:

 Required to Maintain Waterwise Landscaping Rebate Program - Turf (lawn) Limitations
     Applicability: The following requirements apply only to new and reconstructed landscaping for commercial, industrial,
     and institutional projects, and developer-installed landscaping for residential projects. These requirements do not apply to
     single-family residential homeowner-installed landscaping.
     1) Turf is prohibited in landscaped areas (including parkstrips) less than eight
        feet (8’) wide, and on slopes greater than 25%.
     2) In commercial, industrial, institutional, and common areas of multifamily
        residential development, the amount of turf may not exceed 20% of the
        total landscaped area, excluding recreation areas (i.e., sports fields,
        private/public park).
     3) In developer installed landscaping for single family residential development,
        turf areas may not exceed 35% of the total landscaped area.
         a. Exception: Small single family residential lots, that have small back yards, the
            landscaped area is less than 250 square feet, and/or the front yard dimensions are less than eight feet (8’) wide,
            are exempt from the 8’ wide turf area and 35% turf requirements.

      10000 Centennial P arkway       | S a n d y, U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   |   p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   |   f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   |   s a n d y . u t a h . g ov
Amendments Related to Water Efficient Landscaping – CA04182022-0006307                                                                                      Page 3


 Recommended for Single-family Residential Homeowner-installed Landscaping
     Applicability: The following requirement apply only to
     single-family residential homeowner-installed landscaping.
     1) Front Yard Vegetative Coverage: A minimum 33 percent
        vegetative coverage standard is established for the front
        yard, excluding driveways and turf areas.
     2) Mulch: All non-turf planting areas in the front yard are
        required to be covered with mulch.
     3) Parkstrip: A reference to the parkstrip standards is
        included, as it applies to all properties abutting a parkstrip.
                                                                                            Example of Abundant Vegetative Coverage
 Recommended for Stormwater Management Low Impact Development (LID)
     Applicability: The following requirements apply to new and reconstructed
     parking lots for commercial, industrial, institutional, and multifamily
     residential projects.
     1) A parking lot landscaped island may be reduced from five feet (5’) to four
        feet (4’) feet in width for the purpose of implementing LID.
     2) Parking lot landscaped areas abutting paved areas may have a concrete curb
        with openings or a flush concrete ribbon with bumper stops for the purpose
        of implementing LID.

                                                                                                                           Example of LID design
   Recommended Water Efficient Landscaping Standards
       Applicability: The following requirements apply only to new and reconstructed landscaping for commercial, industrial,
       and institutional projects, and developer-installed landscaping for residential projects.




                                 Waterwise Landscaping at the Central Utah Water Conservation District

       1) Definitions: New terms and definitions have been added, revised, or consolidated for clarification, to avoid
          duplication, and for consistency with the CUWCD water efficient landscape standards.
      10000 Centennial P arkway       | S a n d y, U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   |   p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   |   f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   |   s a n d y . u t a h . g ov
Amendments Related to Water Efficient Landscaping – CA04182022-0006307                                                                                   Page 4

      2) Vegetative Coverage: A minimum 33% vegetative coverage standard is established for the total landscaped area,
         excluding turf areas.
      3) Hardscape: A maximum of 50% hard surface material standard is established, unless otherwise stipulated in the
         Cairns Design Standards or the Storefront Conservation Overlay zone.
      4) Mulch Depth: The depth of mulch is changed from four inches (4”) to three inches (3”) consistent with engineering
         standards and CUWCD standards.
      5) Exceptions: Exceptions to the landscaping requirements may be granted if there is a conflict with stormwater
         management low-impact development or with the state law.
      6) Irrigation: The irrigation standards have been updated for consistency with the CUWCD water efficient landscape
         standards.
      7) Localscapes: The CUWCD recommends the following Localscapes
         design standards, which are included in the code amendments:
          a) If size permits, the landscaped areas of the front yard and back yard
             shall include a designed central open shape created by using turf,
             hardscape, groundcover, gravel, or mulch.
          b) Gathering areas shall be constructed of hardscape and placed
             outside of the central open shape. In a landscape without turf,
             gathering areas may function as the central open shape.
          c) Activity zones shall be located outside of the central open shape and
             shall be surfaced with materials other than turf.
          d) Paths shall be made with materials that do not include turf, such as
             hardscape, mulch, or other groundcover.                                                             Example of Localscapes design

   Recommended for Parkstrips
      Applicability: The following requirements apply to all new or redeveloped landscaping in parkstrips.
      1) Turf: Turf is allowed only if the parkstrip is a minimum of eight feet (8’); this is a CUWCD requirement for the
         rebate program.
      2) Mulch: A standard for mulch in non-turf areas is established
         at a minimum layer of three inches (3”). Bark mulch is
         prohibited in new development to prevent dispersing by
         wind, traffic or runoff into waterways causing water quality
         and flooding issues downstream. Rock mulch size
         specifications are included in the Standard Specifications and
         Details document and a reference to those standards is
         included in the code amendments.
      3) Hardscape: The maximum 50% hardscape requirement is                          Examples of Rock Mulch
         changed from “preferable” to “required.” Parkstrips 3 feet
         wide or less may be covered 100% in hard surface material. Exceptions are provided for the Cairns Design Standards
         and the Storefront Conservation Overlay zone.



     10000 Centennial P arkway     | S a n d y, U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   |   p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   |   f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   |   s a n d y . u t a h . g ov
Amendments Related to Water Efficient Landscaping – CA04182022-0006307                                                                                           Page 5

            4) Boulders: A minimum size of boulder is established at 18” in
               diameter, and the existing maximum height of three feet (3’)
               for boulders is continued in the code.
            5) Irrigation: Drip irrigation has been changed from “highly
               encouraged” to” required” for all vegetated non-turf areas.

Non-conforming Uses
  Existing development is not required to make changes to existing
  landscaped areas. The proposed landscaping requirements would only
  apply to new development and redeveloped landscaping. Existing
  landscaping that is not in conformance with the proposed landscaping
  standards would be considered legal non-conforming development.
                                                                                                   Example of Non-Turf Landscaping in Parkstrip

Land Development Code Purpose Compliance
  The Sandy City Land Development Code in 21-1-3 lists the criteria explaining the intent and purpose of the Ordinance. The
  purpose is:

Sec. 21-1-3. Purpose and Scope.
(a)   Purpose. The ordinance from which this title is derived is adopted to implement the Sandy City's General Plan and to promote
      public health, safety, convenience, aesthetics, and welfare; efficient use of land; sustainable land use and building practices;
      transportation options and accessibility; crime prevention; timely citizen involvement in land use decision making; and
      efficiency in development review and land use administration. Specifically, this title is established to promote the following
      purposes:
      (1)     General.
              a.    To facilitate the orderly growth and development of Sandy City.
              b.    To facilitate adequate provision for transportation, water, sewage, schools, parks, and other public requirements.
              c.    To stabilize property values.
              d.    To enhance the economic well-being of Sandy City and its inhabitants.
      (2)     Implementation of General Plan. To coordinate and ensure the implementation of the City's General Plan through
              effective execution of development review requirements, adequate facility and services review and other goals, policies,
              or programs contained in the General Plan.
      (3)     Comprehensive, Consistent and Equitable Regulations. To establish a system of fair, comprehensive, consistent, and
              equitable regulations, standards and procedures for review and approval of all proposed land development within the
              City.
      (4)     Efficiently and Effectively Managed Procedures.
              a.    To promote fair procedures that are efficient and effective in terms of time and expense.
              b.    To be effective and responsive in terms of the allocation of authority and delegation of powers and duties among
                    ministerial, appointed, and elected officials.
              c.    To foster a positive customer service attitude and to respect the rights of all applicants and affected citizens.


  The proposed code amendment is consistent with the purpose of the Land Development Code because the proposal promotes
  the public health, safety, and welfare; ensures consistency and equitable standards; establishes efficiency in development review
  and land use administration; and is consistent with the Sandy City General Plan.


        10000 Centennial P arkway          | S a n d y, U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   |   p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   |   f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   |   s a n d y . u t a h . g ov
Amendments Related to Water Efficient Landscaping – CA04182022-0006307                                                                                     Page 6

General Plan Compliance
  The Sandy City General Plan encourages appropriate development standards for all uses and zoning categories within the city.
  The proposed code amendment furthers that goal and objective by establishing appropriate land development standards for
  all uses and zoning categories within Sandy City, consistent with water conservation practices.

Recommendations
#1 Staff recommends that the Planning Commission forward a positive recommendation to the City Council to amend Title
   21, Chapter 25, “Landscaping Standards” and Chapter 37, “Definitions,” of the Sandy Municipal Code, by ordinance as
   shown in Exhibit “A”, based on the following findings:

Findings:
   1. The proposal implements water efficient landscaping standards, consistent with current State Code and the Central
       Utah Water Conservation District.
   2. The City Council may amend land use ordinances consistent with the purposes of the Sandy Land Development
       Code, the Sandy City General Plan, and the Utah Code, Municipal Land Use, Development, and Management Act
       per Title 21 Chapter 5 of the Sandy Municipal Code.
   3. The proposal is reviewed by the Planning Commission and City Council in accordance with the requirements of Title
       21 Chapter 5 of the Sandy Municipal Code.
   4. The proposal complies with the purpose of the Land Development Code under Section 21-1-03 by ensuring efficiency
       in development review and land use administration, and by promoting and facilitating the orderly growth and
       development of Sandy City
   5. The proposal complies with the Goals and Policies of the General Plan by establishing appropriate development
       standards for all uses and zoning categories within Sandy City.

#2 The Community Development Department requests that the Planning Commission forward a positive recommendation
   to the City Council to adopt the proposed updates to the Sandy City Standard Specifications and Details for Municipal
   Construction by ordinance as shown in Exhibit “E”, based on the following findings:

Findings:
   1. The proposal implements water efficient landscaping standards, consistent with current State Code, the Central Utah
       Water Conservation District, and the Sandy City Land Development Code.

Planner:




Melissa Anderson
Zoning Administrator

Exhibits
    A. Proposed Code Amendments to Title 21 (redlined version)
    B. Proposed Code Amendments to Title 21 (clean version)
    C. Central Utah Water Conservation District Water Efficient Landscaping Standards
    D. Memo by City Engineer Ryan C. Kump, P.E.
    E. Proposed updates to the Sandy City Standard Specification and Details for Municipal Construction

File Name: S:\USERS\PLN\STAFFRPT\2022\CA04182022-0006307 - UPDATES TO WATER EFFICIENT LANDSCAPING STANDARDS\REVISIONS\STAFF
REPORTS\STAFF REPORT LANDSCAPE CODE AMED.MA.FINAL.CC.DOCX

       10000 Centennial P arkway     | S a n d y, U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   |   p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   |   f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   |   s a n d y . u t a h . g ov
