                                                                                10000 South Centennial

                                  Sandy City                                    Parkway Suite 231
                                                                                Sandy, UT 84070

                                 Council Office                                 O| 801-568-7141
                                                                                Sandy.Utah.Gov

                                       Memorandum

                                       February 10, 2022

To:            All City Council Members

Cc:            Dustin Fratto, Interim Council Executive Director

From:          Council Member Brooke D’Sousa

Subject:       Sandy City Youth Council


Introduction and Background
For many years, Sandy City Mayor’s Office had sponsored a Youth City Council program. Four
years ago, the coordination of this program was appropriately transferred to the City Council
Office. With the Council and Mayor’s support, I would like to reinstate the Youth City Council
for Fiscal Year 2023, revamp the program to better meet the needs of our youth, appropriate
funding for the program and move forward with the implementation of the Sandy City Youth
Council program. The Youth Council’s mission and focus will center on providing our city’s high
school students opportunities for leadership, educating our future leaders in municipal
government, fostering an understanding of civic responsibility, and providing opportunities for
service and community engagement within our city.

Program Details
As currently proposed, the program would initially be comprised of up to 30 high school
students, grades 9-12 who are residents of Sandy City. Applications for the program would go
out in May to all area high schools with our first organizational meeting planned for June. The
program would officially kick off in July and run through the following May. The Youth City
Council will be a student led program meeting once a month, initially, and participate in one or
two service projects per month. Our program will focus on civic engagement by educating our
young people in local government through practical hands-on activities and providing
opportunities for them to participate in community events and service projects in the city.

Mission Statement
The Sandy Youth Council seeks to foster community engagement, build a strong foundation for
civic responsibility and service, and provide an opportunity for leadership development for high
school students across Sandy.

Proposal / Next Steps
With the Council and Mayor’s support, I would like to work with Council Office staff to create
the program, the application and installation process, prepare a proposed budget (not to
exceed $5,500), and finalize a detailed schedule of events for our Youth Council Program for the
review and consent of the Council.
