--- PAGE 1 ---
[Sandy logo — COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT]
SANDY CITY COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT

MEMORANDUM
February 17, 2022

To:        Planning Commission
From:      Community Development Department
Subject:   Sandy Urban Fishery Wetlands (Modified Site Plan Review)     SPR01182022-006255
           900 W. Shields Lane                                          Approx. 9 Acres
           [Community #2 – Civic Center]                                Zone: Open Space (OS)

HEARING NOTICE:  This item has been noticed to property owners within 500 feet of the subject area. A physical sign was also posted on the property.

PROPERTY CASE HISTORY
Case Number    Case Summary
SUB 96-33      River Oaks Golf Club Subdivision
SPR-05-40      Sandy Fish Pond Site Plan Review
CU-05-59       Sandy Fish Pond (CUP for a Park)

REQUEST
Mr. Dan Medina, representing the Sandy City Parks & Recreation Department, is requesting the Planning Commission determine preliminary review is complete for the proposed modified site plan for new wetlands located at the Sandy Urban Fishery Pond. The property is located within an Open Space (OS) Zone and is also located in a special flood hazard area. The subject property is a portion of Lot 2d of the River Oaks Golf Club and is approximately nine acres in size, with approximately 1.72 acres being designated wetlands.

The southern portion of the project is located within South Jordan City limits. The applicant is coordinating with South Jordan City on the appropriate approvals and development standards associated with the portion that is outside of Sandy City.

The Planning Commission previously approved the Conditional Use Permit and preliminary site plan for a "park" in the Open Space Zone. This was approved on December 15, 2005.

--- PAGE 2 ---
BACKGROUND
The existing "Wetland Education Pond" located at the southern end of Centennial Parkway has been fenced off to pedestrians for a number of years. It has been proposed that the "Wetlands Education Pond" will be replaced with an apartment building with ground floor flex commercial spaces as part of the Summit at Cairns II project that has been previously reviewed by the Planning Commission.

In order for this area to be used for development, the City had to relocate .7 acres of wetlands and needed to double the size. The proposed relocaton of the wetland habitat is on the same site that was developed into the Sandy Urban Fishery in 2005. This relocation has been reviewed and approved by the Army Corps of Engineers.

NOTICE
Notices were mailed to property owners within a 500-foot radius of the subject parcel to notify them of the Planning Commission meeting. Additionally, a physical sign was posted on the property. A neighborhood meeting was determined not necessary for this particular project.

ANALYSIS
As per Sandy City Code, the Planning Commission is required to review and approve all developments within the Open Space District. The Planning Commission shall review all requests for public facilities, including parks, pavilions, trails, equestrian areas, and indoor/outdoor recreation centers within this District. The Planning Commission shall set appropriate building height, size, and setback requirements for each specific development proposal (Section 21-20-1(b).

A Conditional Use Permit was previously granted for a "park" in the Open Space Zone. The existing urban fishery has a restroom facility, small playground with the associated parking lots near the fishpond. The modification to the site plan will be adding designated wetlands.

The only physical improvement that is proposed for this project is fencing. The City is required to fence all of the wetlands, even the existing areas. It is proposed that a wooden split rail fence will be constructed as shown on the proposed plan. There is some existing black vinyl coated chainlink fence adjacent to the golf course area.

The park is accessed from an existing road off of Shields Lane. The access point is within South Jordan City limits. The applicant has worked with South Jordan Planning and Engineering and has received a notice of staff approval.

This project is within the Flood Plain Overlay District and will need to comply with the applicable standards.

CONCERNS
Staff has no concerns with the proposed modifications to this site plan. However, staff would like to work with the applicant during final review to see if there is a possibility to connect a new trail to the existing maintenance sidewalk that is part of the San Marino Apartments property or to any other connection so that Sandy City residents can access this area without having to drive there. There may be an issue with putting structures, such as a boardwalk, over the wetlands area. Staff

--- PAGE 3 ---
would like to pursue this option further in final review.

STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission determine that the preliminary site plan review is complete for the proposed Sandy Urban Fishery Wetlands, located at 900 W. Shields Lane, based upon the following findings and subject to the following conditions:

Findings:
1.   This is an acceptable use within the Open Space Zone. A Conditional Use Permit was previously approved in 2005.
2.   The Army Corps of Engineers has approved the relocation of the wetlands from Centennial Parkway to this location.
3.   South Jordan Planning and Engineering have approved the proposed site plan.

Conditions:
1.   That the applicant proceed through the final site plan review process with the staff. The final plan shall be in compliance with all Development Code requirements and modifications required by the Planning Commission prior to the start of any construction (including payment of development fees and posting of an appropriate bond to guarantee completion of all required improvements on and off the site).
2.   That the development comply with all Building & Safety, Fire and Life Safety Codes applicable to this type of use.
3.   That the applicant comply with the development standards within the Flood Plain Overlay District as it applies to this project.
4.   That any signs comply with the Sandy City Sign Ordinance.
5.   Due to this project being located within the Jordan River Floodplain, the applicant will have to comply with the Jordan River Flood Channel Management Ordinance. The applicant will need to obtain all necessary Federal, State, and local government permits associated with this wetlands prior to construction.
6.   That this use be reviewed upon legitimate complaint.

Planner:                              Reviewer:
[signature]                           [signature]
Brian McCuistion
Planning Director

10000 Centennial Parkway | Sandy, Utah 84070 | p: 801.568.7250 | f: 801.568.7278 | sandy.utah.gov

--- PAGE 4 ---
Planning Commission Minutes
December 15, 2005
Page 3

single request could be seen by others as encouragement to do the same thing. He questioned staff if there was a way to provide a special interpretation of the ordinance that would allow this type of thing on a case by case basis without having to amend the code.

Mike Coulam, Community Development Director, responded that he has thoroughly reviewed the ordinance and still feels that based on how the ordinance is written, he interpreted it correctly.

To better clarify the intent of the ordinance amendment, the Planning Commission made the following modifications (shown in bold/italics) to Exhibit "A":

F.   Residential Standards - Accessory Buildings and Uses
     4.   Other Requirements.
          a.   Accessory buildings are only allowed on properties where a main dwelling or building exists except as provided in Section 15-05-04(G)(3).

G.   Residential Standards - Zoning For Animals
     3.   Outdoor Animal Domicile Structure
          Exception 2: For properties which have an "A" designation, the Director may allow an outdoor animal domicile structure for farm animals to be constructed prior to construction of a main dwelling under the following conditions:
          b.   The structure is in scale and character with other accessory buildings located within 0.50 miles of the property and located in the same or larger lot zone district, or is an improvement to the immediate area, i.e., R-1-15A, R-1-20A, R-1-30A, R-1-40A.

Alan Matheson moved that the Planning Commission forward a positive recommendation to the City Council to adopt the proposed ordinance amendments as shown in Exhibit "A" with the modifications as shown above and based upon the reasons listed in the staff report.

Darren Mansell seconded the motion. The vote was as follows: Alan Matheson, yes; Darren Mansell, yes; Bruce Steadman, yes; Ken Reber, yes; Max Burdick, yes; Don Milne, yes; Nancy Day, yes. The vote was unanimous in favor.

4.   Sandy Fish Pond
     9700 South 900 West                                     SPR#05-49
                                                             CU#05-59
Mr. Dan Medina, of the Parks & Recreation Department, requested a Conditional Use Permit and for the Planning Commission to determine that preliminary review is complete for a proposed Sandy Fish Pond located at approximately 9700 South and 900 West. The preliminary site plan includes the construction of a three acre public fish pond that will be open year round for fishing and other

--- PAGE 5 ---
Planning Commission Minutes
December 15, 2005
Page 4

recreation purposes. There are three buildings/structures being proposed, and they include a fish cleaning station, a pavilion with an adjoining restroom, and a small playground structure.

The staff report addressed such issues as access, parking, trails, and fencing.

Staff concerns included the following issues:

1.   The applicant will need to work with staff on a final landscape plan that will utilize water efficient landscaping principles.
2.   South Jordan City will need to approve the access to the proposed fishing pond.
3.   The United States Mitigation Commission is the property owner who owns the parcel that the access road is located on. They are willing to deed the property to Sandy City if they will agree to maintain the property.
4.   This project is located within the Jordan River Flood Plain and will have to comply with the Jordan River Flood Channel Management Ordinance. The applicant will need to obtain all necessary Federal, State and local government permits associated with this fish pond prior to construction.
5.   Consideration should be given to other ways for people to access the fish pond besides driving there. One consideration could be to install a bark trail adjacent to the roadway. Another could be a future bridge to the Jordan River Parkway Trail.

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission grant a Conditional Use Permit and determine that preliminary review is complete for the Sandy Fish Pond located at approximately 9700 South 900 West based upon the following findings:

1.   Development of this urban fishery is in compliance with the updated Parks and Recreation Master Plan which is an element of the Sandy City General Plan.
2.   A neighborhood meeting was conducted on November 30, 2005 to address any neighborhood concerns. There were no major concerns expressed at this meeting.
3.   The fish pond and accessory structures will provide recreational opportunities for area residents.
4.   This project will enhance the amenities as part of the Jordan River Parkway system.

And be subject to the following conditions:

1.   That the applicant proceed through the final site plan review process with the Planning Commission and staff. The final plan shall be in compliance with al Development Code requirements and modifications required by the Planning Commission prior to the start of any construction (including payment of development fees and posting of an appropriate bond to guarantee completion of all required improvements on and off the site).

--- PAGE 6 ---
Planning Commission Minutes
December 15, 2005
Page 5

2.   That the development comply with all Building & Safety, Fire and Life Safety Codes applicable to this type of use.
3.   That the applicant submit a final landscape plan that utilizes water efficient landscaping principles. That as much of the existing vegetation as possible be preserved on the site.
4.   That the applicant comply with the development standards within the Flood Plain Overlay District as it applies to this project.
5.   That any signs proposed for the Sandy Fish Pond comply with the Sandy City Sign Ordinance.
6.   That the applicant comply with all department requirements as noted in all preliminary review letters prior to submittal for final site plan review.
7.   Due to this project being located within the Jordan River Flood Plain, the applicant will have to comply with the Jordan River Flood Channel Management Ordinance. The applicant will need to obtain all necessary Federal, State, and local government permits associated with this fish pond prior to construction.
8.   That the applicant consider provisions that would allow a future bridge to the Jordan River Parkway trail, a future canoe launch, and a bark trail adjacent to the access road.
9.   That the use be reviewed upon legitimate complaint.

Dan Medina, representative from the Parks & Recreation Department, explained that the pond will be stocked with trout in the spring and fall, catfish in the summer and bass year round. He referred to the site plan and identified where the 6 foot black vinyl chain link fence will be placed. He further explained where the water source for the pond will come from and how it will flow back into the Jordan River. The purpose of the dock will be to provide handicap access to the pond and bring people out to the deeper area. He referred to condition #8 and reported that there are no plans to allow canoes or rafts on the pond.

Chairwoman Day invited public comment on this issue.

Marilyn Mativich, an area resident, stated that she is very excited and thrilled about this pond. She felt that it will be a wonderful amenity for the City.

Chairwoman Day closed the public comment portion of the hearing.

Nancy Shay, Parks & Recreation Director, referred to condition #8 and explained how difficult it would be to get another bridge across the Jordan River. She wanted the Planning Commission to understand that it would be quite unlikely that a future bridge could be provided.

Don Milne moved that the Planning Commission grant a Conditional Use Permit and determine that preliminary review is complete for the Sandy City Parks & Recreation Department for the Sandy Fish Pond located at approximately 9700 South 900 West based

--- PAGE 7 ---
Planning Commission Minutes
December 15, 2005
Page 6

upon the findings listed in the staff report and be subject to the conditions listed in the staff report with the following modification:

8.   That the applicant consider provisions that would allow a future bridge to the future segment of the Jordan River Parkway Trail, a future canoe launch, and a bark trail adjacent to the access road.

Max Burdick seconded the motion. The vote was as follows: Don Milne, yes; Max Burdick, yes; Ken Reber, yes; Darren Mansell, yes; Bruce Steadman, yes; Alan Matheson, yes; Nancy Day, yes. The vote was unanimous in favor.

5.   Village at River Oaks, Phase 2 -
     Amending Parcel A of Village at River Oaks PUD, Phase 1-A
     9080 S. Jordan Oaks Drive (770 West)                             S#05-33

Mr. Reece Howell, representative for Celtic Investments, is seeking final plat approval for a 2-lot residential subdivision. The subdivision proposal includes amending Parcel A of Village at River Oaks PUD, Phase 1-A. Lot A was originally going to be the location of the clubhouse for the River Oaks project. However, the clubhouse has been relocated from the subject property to a new location in the River Oaks Villas PUD. The applicant is proposing to create two building lots on this parcel. On August 18, 2005, the Planning Commission determined that preliminary review was complete for this subdivision.

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission determine that final review is complete for the Village at River Oaks, Phase 2 - Amending Parcel A of Village at River Oaks PUD, Phase 1-A Subdivision and be subject to the following conditions:

1.   That the applicant comply with the FEMA approval (letter of map revision).
2.   That the applicant/builder/owner comply with the Sensitive Area Overlay Zone.
3.   That the balance of conditions of approval as shown on the recorded plat (refer to recorded conditions of approval) remain in force and are not nullified by this amendment.
4.   That the final plat show the 20 foot public utility easement as it currently exists.
5.   That the future property owners be made aware that they may have the ability to participate in the PUD amenities and services subject to the acceptance of a homeowners association fee. Participation is not mandatory.

Reece Howell, the applicant, agreed to comply with the conditions listed in the staff report.

--- PAGE 8 ---
[South Jordan letterhead]
Dawn R. Ramsey, Mayor
Patrick Harris, Council Member
Bradley G. Marlor, Council Member
Donald J. Shelton, Council Member
Tamara Zander, Council Member
Jason T. McGuire, Council Member

SOUTH JORDAN UTAH
PH: 801.446-HELP  @SouthJordanUT

January 31, 2022

Attn:
Dan Medina
440 East 8680 South
Sandy, UT 84070

RE:  Decision Notification for Minor Site Plan Amendment
     (PLPA202200010)

Dear Applicant,

On January 31, 2022, the Planning Department Approved the above referenced application with the following Conditions:

·   N/A

If you have any questions or concerns regarding this application, please do not hesitate to contact me by phone (801-254-3742) or by email (gschindler@sjc.utah.gov).

Sincerely,

[signature]
Greg Schindler
City Planner

--- PAGE 9 ---
[map/plat page 9 — no text] (photograph of Sandy City Urban Fishery entrance sign at roadside)
Legible sign text:
- PUBLIC NOTICE / Modified Site Plan [remainder illegible]
- Sandy / Sandy City Urban Fishery / 900 W. Shields Lane

--- PAGE 10 ---
[map/plat page 10 — no text] (Wetland Mitigation Concept landscape plan; drawing rotated 180°)
Legible title block / labels:
BOWEN COLLINS & ASSOCIATES
CENTENNIAL WETLAND MITIGATION — SANDY CITY, SANDY CITY, UTAH
WETLAND MITIGATION CONCEPT
LANDSCAPE
DESIGN / REVIEW / DRAWN: J. TSANDES; APPROVED: J. TSANDES
DATE: DECEMBER 2021; PROJECT NUMBER 206-11-01.06; DRAWING NO. L-1; SHEET 1 OF X
TYPICAL SECTION — SCALE 1:20
Labels: JORDAN RIVER; SHIELDS LANE; PROPERTY LINES; NEW SPLIT RAIL WOOD FENCE; NEW SPLIT RAIL WOOD FENCE TO TIE INTO EXISTING RETAINING WALL; NEW SPLIT RAIL WOOD FENCE TO TIE INTO EXISTING FENCE; EXISTING DITCH FROM FISHERY (PUMPED GROUNDWATER); WATER SOURCE FROM EXISTING DITCH/FISHERY, WATER RIGHT OWNED BY SANDY CITY CORP.; AREAS WITHIN EXISTING WETLAND TO BE CONVERTED TO MARSH, THESE THREE AREAS ARE NOT PART OF THE MITIGATION CALCULATION, TYP.; ACCESS GATE AND SIGN; EXISTING FISHERY DISCHARGE LOCATION TO JORDAN RIVER; NEW 6' SIDEWALK; 18" CULVERT; SCALE IN FEET 0 / 30 / 60 / 120
Cross-section labels: MEADOW; MARSH; UPLAND; ROAD; EXISTING WETLANDS
PLANT SCHEDULE (partly legible):
GROUND COVERS / BOTANICAL_COMMON NAME / CONT / SPACING / QTY
WET MARSH — NONE — NONE — 21,272 SF
WET MEADOW — NONE — NONE — 53,021 SF
WETLAND EXISTING — NONE — NONE — 215,192 SF
TOTAL MITIGATION WETLANDS: 0.74 ACRES
TOTAL NEEDED: 1.48 (AT A 2:1 RATIO)
TOTAL SHOWN: 1.72 ACRES
Sandy City Wetland Mitigation Seed Mix (Scientific Name / Common Name / PLS / Rate):
MARSH SEED MIX (SOME STANDING WATER) — 12 PLS
Typha latifolia — Cattails — 1
Schoenoplectus acutus var. acutus — Hardstem Bulrush — 4
Carex simpricyla — Field Sedge — 4
Juncus arcticus — Baltic Rush — 1
Scirpus americanus — Chairmaker's Bulrush — 2
MEADOW SEED MIX (SATURATION WITH LITTLE STANDING WATER) — 15 PLS
Beckmannia syzigachne — Sloughgrass — 3
Carex nebrascensis — Nebraska Sedge — 5
Carex praegracilis — Field Sedge — 4
Juncus balticus — Baltic Rush — 1
Scirpus americanus — Chairmaker's Bulrush — 2

--- PAGE 11 ---
[map/plat page 11 — no text] (aerial location map)
Legible labels:
Subject Property; Not Named; Jordan River Pkwy Trail; Shields Ln; Marano Ct; Serra Way; Sorbara Way; Centino Dr; San Marino Dr; Riverside Dr; Archstone Condos; 9402; 9425 (repeated); N (north arrow)
SPR01182022-006255
Sandy Urban Fishery Wetlands
850 W. Shields Lane
PRODUCED BY BRYNN BOHLENDER
THE COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT
Scale: 0 / 50 / 100 / 200 / 300 / 400 / 500 Feet
