                                     S A N DY C I T Y C O M M U N I T Y D E V E L O P M E N T
                                                                                                                              JAMES SORENSEN
                                                                                                                           COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
                                                                                                                                 DIRECTOR

                                                                                                                                MONICA ZOLTANSKI
                                                                                                                                    MAYOR

                                                                                                                                 SHANE E. PACE
                                                                                                                          CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER




                               Staff Report Memorandum
                                                November 17, 2022


To:             City Council via Planning Commission
From:           Community Development Department
Subject:        Bell Canyon Acres Code Amendment                                                                    CA02092022-0006266
                Amend Title 21, Chapter 19, Special Development Districts,                                                 SD(R-1-30A)
                Section 34, SD(R-1-30A) Bell Canyon Acres, of the Sandy
                Municipal Code
                [Community #22]


 Hearing Notice:                 This item has been noticed to property owners within 500 feet of the subject
                                 area, on public websites, and at public locations.



Request
 On behalf of Sandy City, the Community Development
 Department is proposing to Amend Title 21, Chapter 19, Section
 34 SD(R-1-30A) Bell Canyon Acres, of the Sandy Municipal
 Code. This request was made from City Administration (see the
 attached Exhibit “C”) for staff to prepare some changes to the
 requirements of the Special Development Zone, SD(R-1-30A) -
 Bell Canyon Acres, that applies to approximately 110 acres, located
 at approximately 1300 East and 10600 South. The intent of the
 request is to amend the requirements of this Special Development
 (SD) Zone that would refine the special regulations intended to
 further encourage the preservation of this area’s unique identity and
 refine requirements that have proven difficult to apply and enforce.

Background
 The Bell Canyon Acres Subdivision was developed over several
 phases in the 1970's under the A-1 zoning district. The lots of the
 subdivision range from ½ to 1-1/3 acre. The zoning classification
 for the subdivision has gone through several changes over time. In
 1982, the subdivision was rezoned to R-1-20A. It was changed to
 R-1-30A in 1992, to prevent the re-subdivision of existing lots
 within the development.


     10000 Centennial Parkway       | Sandy, Utah 84070     | p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   | f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8     | s a n d y . u t a h . go v
Bell Canyon Acres Code Amendment – CA02092022-0006266                                                                                               Page 2


                                               Property Case History
  Case Number                                                      Case Summary
                         A process began in 2007 to address issues raised by residents of the Bell Canyon
                         Acres neighborhood. After evaluating several options, a Special Development (SD)
      CA#07-D
                         Zone was drafted. In 2009, the City Council created a new SD Zone District for this
                         specific neighborhood.
                         On April 14, 2009, the City Council rezoned all phases of the Bell Canyon Acres
       R#09-01
                         development under the newly created, SD(R-1-30A) Zone District.

 After over two years of discussions involving numerous ways that the city could best address the needs of this community,
 the city created a special development zone for this unique area of the city in 2009. This area was then rezoned to this
 newly created SD Zone - SD(R-1-30A) Bell Canyon Acres. The intended purpose of these actions was to bring existing
 non-conforming horse owners into conformance (restore rights that existed when the subdivision was created), to promote
 responsible horse ownership, and preserve the rural character as a horse friendly subdivision.

 Since that time staff has identified areas of these regulations that have worked as intended. Many residents have benefited
 by taking advantage of a special use permit to responsibly keep additional horses on their property. The requirements of a
 farm animal set aside area appears to have helped maintain the horse friendly character of the neighborhood and mitigate
 the impacts of larger homes being built in the area and those property owners that choose to not keep animals.

 Staff has also identified areas of the code that could be improved. The existing code did not clearly identify how to
 calculate allotment of farm animals for properties that house a mix of large, medium, and small animals. The application
 of the farm animal set aside area, especially in context of the special use permit, is difficult for residents to understand and
 apply to the context of their property. There are many instances of existing fencing practices in the neighborhood that do
 not comply with our regulations. The size limits on accessory structures is often too restrictive to allow for support and
 care for farm animals. Despite existing regulations expressly not allowing for horse boarding, the practice continues to be
 prevalent in the area. The city has been dealing with a disproportionate amount of code enforcement cases in this area that
 involve many of the above noted code issues.




      10000 Centennial Parkway        | Sandy, Utah 84070     | p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   | f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   | s a n d y . u t a h . go v
Bell Canyon Acres Code Amendment – CA02092022-0006266                                                                                             Page 3


                                      Public Notice and Outreach
                                      The city held a neighborhood meeting via Zoom on March 25, 2022, to share
                                      information about the proposed code amendment and gather input and feedback
                                      from the residents of Bell Canyon Acres. It was well attended by approximately 80
                                      residents. There were many comments during the meeting and many letters received
                                      after voicing both concern and support of the proposed changes. A full summary of
                                      comments received from this meeting is found in Exhibit “D”.

                                      Analysis
                                      Upon receiving the request of the Mayor and City Administration earlier this year,
                                      staff began to carefully review the regulations for the Bell Canyon Acres SD Zone.
                                      The following topics are proposed to be addressed in this code amendment with an
                                      analysis of each:

   •     Boarding. A new definition of horse boarding is proposed along with clarification on the uses allowed in this SD
         Zone. The intent of these changes is to legalize the existing practice of horse boarding only within this zone
         district. This use would be limited to owner occupied properties and would not be allowed to be operated by
         property renters or businesses. Staff intends to simplify enforcement on horses to focus on land use impacts rather
         than ownership of the horses. It would be a better use of enforcement officers’ time to route out negative impacts
         created from improper care of horses, rather than whether they are boarded. So long as the property has not
         exceeded the number of horses allowed and keeping these horses in a non-nuisance manner, boarding alone
         should not generate a negative impact. This topic is likely the most divisive in the neighborhood based on the
         feedback staff has heard and
         received since our neighborhood
         meeting. Issues of liability and
         insurance were of particular
         concern. Staff has analyzed and
         researched this issue which is
         discussed in depth within the
         Position Paper attached as Exhibit
         “E”.

   •     Farm Animal Area Set Aside.
         Several clarifications are proposed to
         clarify what does and does not
         count toward this required set aside
         area. This also includes a new
         explanatory graphic to help
         illustrate the regulations.

   •     Farm Animal Allowances. One of
         the primary purposes of this SD
         Zone was to allow for properties to
         have four horses on an average
         30,000 square foot lot “by-right”,
         but utilized a couple of different


       10000 Centennial Parkway      | Sandy, Utah 84070    | p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   | f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   | s a n d y . u t a h . go v
Bell Canyon Acres Code Amendment – CA02092022-0006266                                                                                              Page 4


         ratios to arrive at the final quantity. The existing code caused a lot of confusion in how to correctly calculate how
         many farm animals a property owner could legally keep, especially when there is a mix of small, medium, or large
         farm animals. This proposal simplifies it down to a single ratio and includes an easy way determine the
         allowances. It does not change the number of horses permitted under the current code. An example chart is also
         included with the formulas to help illustrate how this is to be administered.




         In addition, this proposal allows for a miniature horse to be considered a medium rather than large farm animal.
         It also places limits on Vietnamese potbellied pigs (large animal) to two per lot. It also places limits on the
         maximum number large, medium, and small variety of farm animals allowed, unless a special use permit is
         obtained.

   •     Special Use Permit Allowances. This section contains several clarifications on how many farm animals this
         permit could allow and proposes a new formula to arrive at those numbers. While the “by-right” allowance ratios
         discussed above uses the property’s gross land area, this would use the amount of dedicated farm animal area set
         aside instead. A property would not receive benefit under this permit unless more than half of the lot area qualifies
         as farm animal area set aside. There are also maximums imposed for each animal size.




         The way the city would verify ownership is revised and follows
         similar text used with accessory apartments and short-term rentals
         (STRs). There are a few other miscellaneous minor text changes
         that help clarify existing requirements for this permit.

   •     Accessory Structures. A new conditional use permit review process
         is proposed for requests of additional square footage for accessory
         structures used for care and maintenance of farm animals.
         Properties in this zone can currently apply for a 50% increase in
         total allowed square footage under current regulations through a
         conditional use permit. If that amount doesn’t meet their needs, a
         property owner could request up to 20% of the rear yard area if


       10000 Centennial Parkway     | Sandy, Utah 84070      | p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   | f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   | s a n d y . u t a h . go v
Bell Canyon Acres Code Amendment – CA02092022-0006266                                                                                                      Page 5


                the requested increase is used exclusively for the keeping of farm animals (such as hay barns, stables, etc.). This
                could help several properties in the area with existing large structures that exceed current limits. Many of these
                structures were initially permitted and legal but have added awnings or other additions to increase capacity to
                provide care and maintenance of farm animals that then exceed the maximum size.

      •         Fencing. There are several properties in this
                area that have wide lots or odd shapes that
                create large front or corner side yard areas.
                Many owners have fenced in these areas of
                their property with six-foot-tall split rail
                fencing. Existing city regulations would
                prohibit fencing that tall from being placed
                in the front yard area. The code also includes
                a new explanatory graphic to illustrate these
                new regulations. This would reduce the
                amount of non-conforming fencing in the
                area.


                                                                             The full text of the proposed code amendments is shown
                                                                             in the attached Exhibit “A” (redlined version) and
                                                                             Exhibit “B” (final clean version).

                                                                             Non-conforming Uses
                                                                             The proposed amendments would provide a way to
                                                                             eliminate several non-conforming structures, fences, and
                                                                             boarding practices. It could create some legal non-
                                                                             conforming situations regarding the farm animal area set
                                                                             aside clarifications.

Land Development Code Purpose Compliance
 The Sandy City Land Development Code in 21-1-3 lists the criteria explaining the intent and purpose of the Ordinance.
 The purpose is:

Sec. 21-1-3. Purpose and Scope.
(a)       Purpose. The ordinance from which this title is derived is adopted to implement the Sandy City's General Plan and to promote
          public health, safety, convenience, aesthetics, and welfare; efficient use of land; sustainable land use and building practices;
          transportation options and accessibility; crime prevention; timely citizen involvement in land use decision making; and
          efficiency in development review and land use administration. Specifically, this title is established to promote the following
          purposes:
          (1)   General.
                a.    To facilitate the orderly growth and development of Sandy City.
                b.    To facilitate adequate provision for transportation, water, sewage, schools, parks, and other public requirements.
                c.    To stabilize property values.
                d.    To enhance the economic well-being of Sandy City and its inhabitants.



            10000 Centennial Parkway        | Sandy, Utah 84070      | p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   | f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   | s a n d y . u t a h . go v
Bell Canyon Acres Code Amendment – CA02092022-0006266                                                                                                 Page 6


     (2)   Implementation of General Plan. To coordinate and ensure the implementation of the City's General Plan through
           effective execution of development review requirements, adequate facility and services review and other goals, policies,
           or programs contained in the General Plan.
     (3)   Comprehensive, Consistent and Equitable Regulations. To establish a system of fair, comprehensive, consistent, and
           equitable regulations, standards and procedures for review and approval of all proposed land development within the
           City.
     (4)   Efficiently and Effectively Managed Procedures.
           a.   To promote fair procedures that are efficient and effective in terms of time and expense.
           b.   To be effective and responsive in terms of the allocation of authority and delegation of powers and duties among
                ministerial, appointed, and elected officials.
           c.   To foster a positive customer service attitude and to respect the rights of all applicants and affected citizens.


  The proposed code amendment is consistent with the purpose of the Land Development Code because the proposal
  promotes the public health, safety, and welfare; ensures consistency and equitable standards; establishes efficiency in
  development review and land use administration; and is consistent with the Sandy City General Plan.

General Plan Compliance
  The Sandy City General Plan encourages appropriate development standards for all uses and zoning categories within the
  city. The proposed code amendment furthers that goal and objective by establishing appropriate land development
  standards for this zoning district.

Recommendation
  Staff recommends that the Planning Commission forward a positive recommendation to the City Council to amend Title
  21, Chapter 19, Section 34 SD(R-1-30A) Bell Canyon Acres, of the Sandy Municipal Code, as shown in Exhibit “A,”
  based on the following findings:

Findings:
   1. Compliance with the Purpose of the Land Development Code by promoting and facilitating the orderly growth and
       development of Sandy City.

    2. Compliance with the Goals and Policies of the General Plan by establishing appropriate development standards for
       all uses and zoning categories within Sandy City.

Planner:




Mike Wilcox
Planning Director

File Name: S:\USERS\PLN\STAFFRPT\2022\CA02092022-0006266_AMEND SD(R-1-30A) BELL CANYON
ACRES\PLANNING COMMISSION\STAFF REPORT.DOCX




       10000 Centennial Parkway       | Sandy, Utah 84070       | p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   | f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   | s a n d y . u t a h . go v
