                               MEMORANDUM
                                        February 3, 2022


 To:          Planning Commission
 From:        Community Development Department
 Subject:     Oakwood Cove Estates Second Amended                        SUB12262021-006235
              (Preliminary Review & Special Exception for                SPX12282021-006238
              Alteration of 30% Slope)                                               .31 Acres
              8038 South Oakwood Vista Cove                                   R-1-8, SAO Zone
              [Community #15]


NOTICE: This item has been noticed to property owners within 500 feet of the subject area,
        posted on the property, and on the City and Utah Public Notice websites.



                                 PROPERTY CASE HISTORY
    Case Number                                       Case Summary
      S#94-39           Phase 8 of the Oakwood Estates development was recorded on August
                        3, 1994. It created 7 single family home lots.
       S#07-21          The Oakwood Cove Estates development was recorded on February 12,
                        2010. It created 5 new single family home lots and amended 1 lot from
                        the original Oakwood Estates plat.
   SUB-6-10-1353        An amended plat to Lot 1 of the Oakwood Cove Estates Plat was
                        recorded on October 10, 2010. This plat split this lot into 2, thus
                        creating 1 additonal lot.
 CASE 08-21-016921      In August of 2021, a code enforcement case was opened after receiving
                        a complaint regarding a removal of native vegetation from the
                        property. It was found that there was fill brought into a 30% slope area
                        without a grading permit as it is within the Sensitive Area Overlay,
                        which would require Planning Commission approval.

DESCRIPTION OF REQUEST
The applicant, Avraham Galili, is requesting review for a special exception to approve an
alteration (grading, cut, and fill) to a continuous 30% or greater slope within the Sensitive Area
Overlay Zone on the property located at 8038 South Oakwood Vista Cove. The applicant is
Oakwood Cove Estates Second Amended Plat & Special Exception                             Page - 2 -

requesting that the Planning Commission accept the current as-built condition of the fill added
to date. They are also seeking review of an amended plat that intends to clarify the protected
30% slope areas and refine the buildable area of the lot.

NOTICE
Notices were mailed to property owners within a 500-foot radius of the subject property as per
Sandy City Land Development Code requirements, to notify them of the Planning Commission
meeting. No neighborhood meeting was held for this application.

BACKGROUND & SITE CONDITIONS
                                                                         The subject property is
                                                                         zoned R-1-8 and is
                                                                         within the Sensitive Area
                                                                         Overlay (SAO) Zone (see
                                                                         attached map exhibits).
                                                                         It is bordered on all sides
                                                                         by other single-family
                                                                         homes in the same zone.
                                                                         The subject property is
                                                                         approximately .31 acres
                                                                         in size and has a single-
                                                                         family home.

This lot had a natural drainage channel that ran through it. The upper hillside of the ravine (west
side) was determined to be a protected 30% slope. The down slope to the ravine (east side) was
determined to be an anomaly and was not protected. This protected area is platted to give
potential owners of the land a public notice of these restrictions. The applicant purchased the
home in 2020, where some of that protected slope area had been disturbed in landscaping the
home. The applicant did some further modifications to the site in late summer of 2021 and
removed all the native vegetation from the site, as well as further filling of the native ravine
swale. The result of both actions has leveled off the rear yard area and changed the native
contours. The city was notified of a complaint in the late summer of 2021 alerting us of the
removal of trees and grading on the lot. There are no known permits to alter any portion of the
protected hillside area of this lot.
Oakwood Cove Estates Second Amended Plat & Special Exception                                                Page - 3 -



ANALYSIS
The applicant has presented as-built grading plans and a revised plat (see attached) that reflect
the current conditions of the site and proposed revisions to the protected slope areas and refined
building area delineation. They are seeking retroactive review by the Planning Commission to
approve these grading alterations to the hillside areas.




The SAO zone has a provision that states:
Sec. 21-15-4. Development Standards for Sensitive Areas.
(b)    Development Standards for All Sensitive Areas.
      (6) Grading, Cuts and Fill.
            f.    No grading, cuts, fills, or terracing will be allowed on a continuous hillside of 30 percent or
                  greater slope, crest (upslope or downslope) unless otherwise determined by the Planning
                  Commission upon recommendation of the Director and City Engineer.
The Planning Commission has the authority to review and approve any alteration to a 30% slope
upon receiving a recommendation from staff. They can also determine where the protected areas
of slope should be platted.

In this instance, the protected hillside has been filled in, contours modified, and vegetation
removed in an apparent effort to increase their usable yard area. Staff finds that the applicant
should technically be able to fully restore the slope and re-vegetate the area for slope stability
(see the attached grading permit corrections reports). However, that remediation action has
potential downsides as well (erosion, storm water pollution, etc.) as pointed out in the City
Engineer’s Memo.

In an effort to balance the scales of sound engineering and code enforcement of our Sensitive
Area Overlay zone protections, staff proposes a middle ground resolution. Staff would
recommend approving the existing modifications to the hillside area that has occurred to date if
the original platted hillside area is fully revegetated to restore the tree stands and stabilize the
     Oakwood Cove Estates Second Amended Plat & Special Exception                              Page - 4 -

     hillside. Staff is not in support of expanding the usable land area of the lot through this approval.
     Staff is not in support of a modification to the platted slope area and thus would recommend
     denial of the plat amendment, while recommending a conditional approval of the special
     exception request.

     STAFF RECOMMENDATION
#1   Staff recommends that the Planning Commission approve the special exception for alterations of
     a continuous hillside of 30 percent or greater slope for the property located at 8038 South
     Oakwood Vista Cove, based on the following findings and conditions:

     Findings:

        1. The applicant and/or previous owners filled in the ravine, removed native vegetation,
           and altered a 30% or greater slope without permits or approvals of the City.

        2. The City Engineer finds the protected slope areas could be closely restored to their
           native condition and be sufficiently stabilized with native vegetation but could have
           unintended consequences.

        3. The existing consolidated fill material deposited in the ravine has stabilized over
           several years.

        4. The City Engineer and Community Development Director support a conditional
           approval of the special exception.

     Conditions:

        1. That a grading permit be reviewed and approved by staff. No further grading or
           alteration is allowed beyond what has already occurred within the currently platted
           hillside area.

        2. A revegetation plan shall be required as part of the grading permit review. That the
           gamble oak trees, and other native species be restored to the hillside’s pre-disturbance
           condition per the staff redlines on the grading permit application. A revegetation plan
           prepared by a licensed landscape architect must be reviewed and approved by staff
           before any further work commences on the site.

        3. That the revegetation be completed before May 15, 2022.

        4. That appropriate temporary protection of these trees be provided to ensure they can
           grow and establish themselves without being consumed by the wildlife in the area.

#2   Staff recommends that the Planning Commission determine that the Preliminary Subdivision
     review is NOT complete for the Oakwood Cove Estates Second Amended located at 8038 South
     Oakwood Vista Cove, based upon the following findings:

     Findings:

        1. The special exception request to modify a 30% slope has been conditionally approved
Oakwood Cove Estates Second Amended Plat & Special Exception                                      Page - 5 -

        yet required to restore the native vegetation to the platted hillside area.

    2. The change in slope has resulted from a manmade disturbance.

    3. There has been no demonstration of an error in the original mapping of 30% slope that
       would result in a change to that hillside area.

    4. There is no need to alter the existing plat.


Planner:



Mike Wilcox
Zoning Administrator

File Name: S:\USERS\PLN\STAFFRPT\2021\SUB12262021-006235_OAKWOOD COVE 2ND AMD\STAFF REPORT.DOCX
