                                  MEMORANDUM
                                              June 2, 2022


 To:      Planning Commission
 From:    Community Development Department
 Subject: Dimple Dell Ridge Lot 1 Amended Subdivision                           SUB01182022-006256
          (Preliminary Review & Sensitive Area Overlay)                                Zone: R-1-20A
          1703 East Dimple Dell Road                                                 0.69 Acres, 1 Lot
          [Community #26]


HEARING NOTICE:        This item has been noticed to property owners within 500 feet of the subject area.



                               PROPERTY CASE HISTORY
   Case Number                                     Case Summary
  SUB-09-17-5300        The Dimple Dell Ridge plat was reviewed by the Planning Commission
                        on May 17, 2018. It was recorded on June 6, 2019.

DESCRIPTION OF REQUEST
The applicants, Andrew & Christina Deaver, are requesting preliminary subdivision and Sensitive
Area Overlay review for a proposed amended subdivision plat (see Applicant’s Letter). The subject
property is located at 1703 East Dimple Dell Road along the southern rim of Dimple Dell Park. The
proposed amendment to the recorded subdivision involves only Lot 1. The application proposes to
amend the protected hillside areas (30% or greater slopes) that were originally mapped as part of
the Dimple Dell Ridge Subdivision plat. No new lots or amended property lines are proposed.

BACKGROUND
The subject property is subject to the requirements of the Sensitive Area Overlay zone due to the
steep natural slopes along this upper rim of the Dimple Dell natural gorge. Portions of this property
had been illegally disturbed many years ago and was subsequently restored by previous owners.
The property was further subdivided in 2019 to create two new lots along the frontage of Dimple
Dell Road. This lot does not have direct access to Dimple Dell Road and a private easement across
Lot 2 to the east to share the same drive approach.

The subject property is bordered by Open Space zones to the west and north, where it borders
Dimple Dell Park. It is surrounded on the east and south by matching R-1-20A zones, which includes
Dimple Dell Ridge Lot 1 Amended Subdivision – SUB01182022-006256                          Page - 2 -


the Larkin Mortuary across the street to the south of the property. The Villas at Dimple Dell
PUD(4.56), which is a subdivision that was approved in 2016, is located to the southwest of the
property.

NOTICE
Notices were mailed to property owners within a 500 foot radius of the subject parcel to notify them
of the Planning Commission meeting. No neighborhood meeting was held on this item because no
new lots would be created with this proposal.

ANALYSIS
The subject property lies within Sandy City’s Sensitive Area Overlay (SAO), which means that the
subdivision and any structure built on the proposed lots would need to conform to the provisions of
the Overlay in addition the underlying zone. The purpose of the SAO is to provide standards,
guidelines, and criteria that will minimize environmental hazards and protect the natural scenic
character of sensitive areas within Sandy City. The subject property is included in the SAO because
of the amount of continuous 30% slope area on the property as well as its adjacency to Dimple Dell
Park.

The applicant has demonstrated through a survey that the platted 30% + slope boundary does not
match the surveyed slopes in the field. Staff met with the applicant to review their findings and
survey stakes in the field. The City Engineer has agreed that the current survey more accurately
reflects the existing conditions of the lot (see the attached City Engineer Recommendation Letter).
The result would mean that a large buildable envelope would be the result of this plat amendment.
While some of the platted 30% slope area would be removed, there is a similar sized area that was
not originally platted as a protected area that the applicants are proposing to add to the area of
protected hillside. The change to the slope area would create a more usable building envelope on the
west side of the lot. On the east side of the lot, this proposed alteration would provide further
protections to areas of native vegetation that would be preserved.
Dimple Dell Ridge Lot 1 Amended Subdivision – SUB01182022-006256                                    Page - 3 -


CONCERNS
Staff is concerned about the following:
    − There were concerns during the original
         plat review regarding the feasibility of
         constructing a home and access
         driveway. Staff has not yet reviewed an
         engineered plan to construct the
         driveway, but these plans will be
         required during the building permit
         review process.
    − There may need to be some minor
         refinements to the revised hillside
         protection areas shown on the
         applicant’s plans. Staff is concerned that
         the mapped slope area doesn’t match up
         well as it approaches Lot 2.

STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission determine that the preliminary subdivision and
Sensitive Area Overlay zone reviews area complete for the Dimple Dell Ridge Lot 1 Amended
Subdivision, located at 1703 East Dimple Dell Road subject to the following findings and conditions:

Findings:

    1. That the various City departments and divisions have preliminarily approved the proposed
       subdivision plat.

    2. That the proposed subdivision will be finalized with City staff, through recording with the
       County Recorder.

    3. The City Engineer supports the proposed revisions to the hillside areas based on the evidence
       provided by the applicant.

Conditions:

    1. That the applicant complies with each department’s comments and redlines throughout the
       final review process and that all issues be resolved before the subdivision can be recorded.

    2. That all previous conditions of approval imposed upon the original subdivision will remain
       in full force and affect.

    3. That the proposed amendments to the mapped protected hillside areas be approved as
       shown in the application materials subject to minor corrections required by staff during final
       review.

Planner:
Mike Wilcox
Planning Director

File Name: S:\USERS\PLN\STAFFRPT\2022\SUB01182022-006256 DIMPLE DELL RIDGE LOT 1 AMENDED PLAT\STAFF REPORT.DOCX
