            S ANDY C I T Y C O M M U N I T Y D E V E L O P M E N T
                                                                                        JAMES SORENSEN COMMUNITY
                                                                                          DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR

                                                                                             MONICA ZOLTANSKI
                                                                                                  MAYOR

                                                                                            CLIFFORD STRACHAN
                                                                                       CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER




                               MEMORANDUM
                                           June 2, 2022


 To:          Planning Commission
 From:        Community Development Department
 Subject:     Sandy Park Center Lot 3 Amended (Preliminary                SUB04152022-006305
              Subdivision Review)                                               Zone: CBD-O
              9835 South Monroe Street                                            11.47 Acres
              [Community #2 – Civic Center]


HEARING NOTICE: This item has been noticed to property owners within 500 feet of the
             subject area.



                                PROPERTY CASE HISTORY
    Case Number                                    Case Summary
      S#98-22           Preliminary approval for Civic Center Commercial Subdivision granted
                        by Planning Commission on June 19, 1998.
     SPR#98-24          Workers Compensation Phase 1 Office Park
     SPR#05-29          Preliminary site plan approval granted by Planning Commission for
                        Sandy Park Center Office Building D.
  SUB-10-11-2063        Sandy Park Center Subdivision approval granted by Planning
                        Commission on February 14, 2012.

DESCRIPTION OF REQUEST
The applicant, LeeAnn Miller, with Woodbury Corporation, is representing the property owners
Sandy Park Common, LLC. She is requesting a preliminary review to amend Lot 3 of the Sandy
Park Center Subdivision, and Lot 2 of the Civic Center Subdivision, located at approximately
9835 South Monroe Street. The amended plat would adjust the boundary separating the two lots.
The amendment is also being requested to increase the size of Lot 3, as well as to adjust the
location of the business park drive aisle immediately to the east of the existing Lot 3, to where it
intersects with Civic Center Drive. The applicant is not requesting any special exceptions or
overlay zones with their request.
Sandy Park Center Lot 3 Amended Subdivision - SUB04152022-006305                             Page 2


BACKGROUND & SITE CONDITIONS
The subject property is approximately 11.47 acres in size, and is located in the CBD-O Zone
(Central Business District, Office Subdistrict). It is bordered on all sides by various uses in the
CBD-O Zone. The surrounding properties include the Mountain America Credit Union building
to the west, the Hale Centre Theatre and its grounds to the southwest and south, the Park at City
Center apartment complex to the southeast, and various other office uses and parking garages
rounding out the rest of the area to the east and the north.

NOTICE
Notices were mailed to property owners within a 500-foot radius of the subject property as per
Sandy City Land Development Code requirements, to notify them of the Planning Commission
meeting. The Community Development Director determined that no neighborhood meeting is
required as this request is not creating any new intensity of use to the area that was not already
planned as part of future phases of development.

SUBDIVISION ANALYSIS
The access into the business park is being relocated to the east with this subdivision amendment.
Through this realignment it would then be much better aligned with the entrance to the Park at
City Center apartment complex. This has been an area where points of conflict have been
identified in the past, and the new alignment should result in a safer intersection for both
pedestrian and vehicular traffic.

City staff and departments have reviewed and recommend preliminary subdivision review is
complete, subject to their normal requirements and specifications. The subdivision meets all
zoning requirements.

STAFF CONCERNS

Staff has no concerns with the proposed subdivision amendment.

STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission determine that preliminary review is complete
for the Sandy Park Center Lot 3 Amended Subdivision based on the following findings and subject
to the following conditions:

Findings:
   1. That the various City departments and divisions have preliminarily approved the
      proposed subdivision plat.

   2. That the proposed subdivision will be finalized with City staff, through recording with
      the County Recorder.


Conditions:
   1. That the applicant complies with each department’s comments and redlines
      throughout the final review process and that all issues be resolved before the
      subdivision can be recorded.
    Sandy Park Center Lot 3 Amended Subdivision - SUB04152022-006305                                            Page 3


         2. That all City provisions, codes and ordinances are adhered to during the review
            process of this project.

         3. That all commercial lots comply with all requirements of the CBD-O Zone.

         4. That all previously approved conditions of approval from the existing Site Plan
            Approvals remain in full force and are not nullified or removed with this
            approval.

         5. That the additional public right-of-way be dedicated with this plat amendment to
            accommodate the additional width required to comply with the Cairns Design
            Standards.



___________________________
Craig Evans
Planner



File Name: S:\USERS\PLN\STAFFRPT\2017\SUB04152022-006305 (aka 005806 in Energov) Sandy Park Center Restaurant
