            S ANDY C I T Y C O M M U N I T Y D E V E L O P M E N T
                                                                                          JAMES SORENSEN COMMUNITY
                                                                                             DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR

                                                                                               MONICA ZOLTANSKI
                                                                                                    MAYOR

                                                                                               CLIFFORD STRACHAN
                                                                                          CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER




                                 MEMORANDUM
                                              July 21, 2022


 To:           Planning Commission
 From:         Community Development Department
 Subject:      Somerset Villas Subdivision (Preliminary Review)                 SUB04042022-006297
               625 East 8100 South                                                         .53 Acres
               [Community #3, Sandy Woods]                                             Zone: RM(12)


HEARING NOTICE: This item has been noticed to property owners within 500 feet of the subject area. A
                   physical sign was also posted on the property.


                                   PROPERTY CASE HISTORY
    Case Number                                         Case Summary
 SUB-04-19-5642               Lot Line Adjustment approved by Planning Director on April 29, 2019.
 SUB-11-20-5942               Lot Line Adjustment approved by Assistant Community Development
                              Director on November 13, 2020.
 SUB05262022-006334           Lot Line Adjustment approved by Assistant Community Development
                              Director on July 8, 2022.

DESCRIPTION OF REQUEST
John Clayton, the applicant, representing Clayton Homes, is requesting a preliminary review for
a proposed six (6) unit multi-family subdivision, located at 625 East 8100 South. The applicant is
not requesting any special exceptions or overlay zones with his request.

BACKGROUND & SITE CONDITIONS
The subject property consists of approximately .53 acres and is located in the RM(12) Zone. To
the east are duplexes in the RM(12) Zone. To the north is a single family home in the RM(12)
Zone. To the west, across the street is an LDS Church in the R-1-8 Zone. To the south is Twin
Pines Nursery in the R-1-8 Zone, and to the southeast is a single family home in the R-1-8 Zone.
Somerset Villas Subdivision – SUB04042022-006297                                           Page - 2 -


NOTICE
Notices were mailed to property owners within a 500-foot radius of the subject property as per
Sandy City Land Development Code requirements, to notify them of the Planning Commission
meeting. A physical sign was also posted on the property to provide notification of the upcoming
meeting.

A neighborhood meeting was held on April 25, 2022. Two residents attended the meeting. A
question was asked regarding whether the townhome units would be for sale or for rent. The
applicant responded that they will be for sale.

The owners of the adjacent home to the north, Lyle and Debra Buchanan, commented that they
do not want their lot to be included as part of the plat, and they do not want to be responsible for
any right-of-way improvements in front of their property, as they are not part of this subdivision
application.

ANALYSIS
The applicant is proposing a multi-family residential subdivision that will create six (6)
residential units on approximately .53 acres utilizing the Residential Multi-family (RM-12) Zone.
The units will be configured as one (1) twinhom building and one (1) four-plex, totalling two (2)
buildings in all.

The proposed plat would be done as a PUD plat that would designate different portions of the
land area as common (yard areas and community open space), limited common (driveways), and
private (building pad area). A set of covenants, conditions, and restrictions will need to be
recorded to enforce rules that govern different areas and set up a maintenance plan for all
common areas.

Right-of-way dedication will be required to ensure that the Sandy City requirement for a road
half-width of 26 feet is met for both 615 East and 8100 South. This will entail dedicating 1.2 feet
of right-of-way along the west property line (615 East), and one (1) foot of dedication along the
south property line (8100 South).

Parking requirements will be met through attached garages and driveways. Each unit has a two-
car garage to provide parking for residents. Each unit’s driveway will be 20 feet long and at least
22 feet wide, allowing space for the parking of two vehicles, thus allowing for guest parking on
the site.

Along both street frontages the applicant will be required to construct right-of-way
improvements, including a 2 ½ foot (2.5’) curb and gutter, a five-foot (5’) parkstrip, and a five-
foot (5’) sidewalk in order to meet the City’s required right-of-way cross section.

Building setbacks in the RM Zone call for the Community Development Director to determine
which lines are considered as front, side, and rear property lines. Because it is a corner lot, there
are two front property lines, determined to be the frontages along 615 East and 8100 South,
with the rear to be the north property line and the side to be the east property line. The code
requires a front setback of twenty feet (20’) along both street frontages. Side setbacks are
required to be at least eight feet (8’) from the east property line, and the rear setback is fifteen
feet (15’) to the north property line.
Somerset Villas Subdivision – SUB04042022-006297                                        Page - 3 -



Tha applicant has submitted preliminary architectural elevations for the proposed four-plex.
These are also representative of the anticipated twinhome building elevations. Both buildings
are proposed to be three (3) stories, and will have two-car attached garages for each unit. Unlike
a PUD Zone, which prescribes higher standards for building materials, the RM zone does not
incorporate standards for materials or building articulation.

A landscaping plan has been submitted, showing the planting of a variety of shrubs and trees as
required by code.

STAFF CONCERNS
Staff’s primary concern regards the curb and gutter along 615 East. Currently, curb and gutter
are present beginning at 8000 South and southward down to the adjacent single-family home’s
(the Buchanan residence’s) large secondary driveway, which leads to their detached garage.

By ordinance, the applicant is required to install curb and gutter along their project frontages.
However, stopping at their north property line would leave approximately 55 feet of roadway
unimproved. That would be the only section of road remaining without curb and gutter along the
block. Staff recommends that the applicant installs and extends the curb and gutter northward up
to the Buchanan’s secondary driveway. Also, to ensure that that stormwater drains throughout
the entire street properly staff recommends that a drive approach be constructed for the
Buchanan’s secondary driveway as well. A condition of approval has been added detailing this
requirement.

STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission determine that preliminary review is complete
for the Somerset Villas Subdivision, located at 625 East 8100 South, based on the following
findings and subject to the following conditions:

Findings:
   1. That the various City departments and divisions have preliminarily approved the
      proposed subdivision plat.

   2. That the proposed subdivision will be finalized with City staff, through recording with
      the County Recorder.

Conditions:
   1. That the applicant complies with each department’s comments and redlines throughout
      the preliminary and final review process and that all issues be resolved before final
      subdivision approval.

   2. That all City provisions, codes and ordinances are adhered to during the review,
      construction and operations process of this building.

   3. That the developer submits CC&Rs covering common area open space maintenance and
      stewardship.
Somerset Villas Subdivision – SUB04042022-006297                                                  Page - 4 -


    4. All structures and improvements for individual homes are to be restricted to the pad
       site, including but not limited to pop-outs, chimneys, porches, patios, decks, stairways,
       etc., and may not be built in public common area.

    5. That during all construction activities, the applicant coordinates with Public Works to
       ensure there is minimal impact to traffic on 615 East and 8100 South.

    6. That the private attached garages be used for the storage of vehicles only to ensure
       there is adequate off-street parking.

    7. That the applicant installs curb and gutter that extends beyond the north property line
       of the project to the Buchanan’s secondary driveway to the north. A drive approach is
       also to be constructed for the Buchanan’s secondary driveway to ensure proper
       handling of stormwater drainage.




________________________________
Craig P. Evans, Senior Planner
File Name: S:\USERS\PLN\STAFFRPT\2022\SUB04042022-006297 SOMERSET VILLAS SUBDIVISION\PLANNING COMMISSION\STAFF
REPORT - SOMERSET VILLAS SUBDIVISION.DOCX
