                                 MEMORANDUM
                                           April 21, 2022


 To:         City Council via Planning Commission
 From:       Community Development Department
 Subject:    Amendments to SD(R-2-A) Fluckiger District                     CA02232022-0006273
             Amend Title 21, Chapter 19, Special Development
             Districts, Section 26, SD(R-2-A) District, of the
             Sandy Municipal Code


HEARING NOTICE: This item has been noticed on public websites and mailed notices to all
                property owners within 500’ of the zone district at least 10 days prior to the
                Public Hearing.



REQUEST
Laine and Cindi Fluekiger, property owners of the majority of the land within the SD(R-2-A) Fluckiger
District, are proposing to Amend Title 21, Chapter 19, Special Development (SD) Districts, Section 26,
SD(R-2-A) Fluckiger District, of the Sandy Municipal Code. The purpose of the Code Amendment is to
amend the requirements of this SD Zone that would allow for a total of four (4) single-family lots
within the zoned area (allows for potential of two additional lots) and other miscellaneous
amendments to simplify and clarify the regulations. The applicants intend to file a subdivision
application in the future that would create the additional lots if this request were approved. See the
attached “Applicant Letter” for further information on their request.

BACKGROUND
The subject property area was annexed into the City in 1989. There was some debate and discussion
regarding the appropriate zoning district to be assigned to this property. After seven failed motions,
an approved motion by the City Council directed staff to develop an SD zone that would “allow two
homes to be built on the property” (see the City Council minutes from the September 19, 1989
meeting). An SD Zone for this land area was created shortly thereafter and the property has been
subject to that special zone district since that time. The land was subdivided in 1990 to create two
(2) lots for new homes to replace the existing farmhouse. At some point since that subdivision was
created, the owners have further split that land into two parcels without an approved subdivision
plat.
Amendments to SD(R-2-A) Fluckiger – CA02232022-0006273                                    Page - 2 -


The SD(R-2-A) Fluckiger District is
bordered by the Bell Canyon City Park to
the west (zoned Open Space (OS), single-
family developments to the north (zoned
R-1-10), east (R-1-20A), and south (R-1-
20A).

NOTICE
Notices were mailed to property owners
within a 500-foot radius of the subject
zone boundary to notify them of the
Planning Commission meeting. The city
also held a neighborhood meeting on
March 10, 2022. A full report from the
meeting is attached to this report.

ANALYIS
The Fluekiger’s provided city staff with
the objective they wanted to achieve
with their proposed code amendment.
The main objective can be summarized
that they are seeking to increase the
maximum allowed density from 2 units
per acre to 2.67 units per acre. Staff has
suggested and prepared several other
amendments to this section of the code
that are intended to clarify and simplify the regulations for this zone.

Staff aided the applicants in preparation of the proposed language and edits to this Special
Development District. Those amendments to this section of the code is shown in Exhibit “A”
(redlined version) and Exhibit “B” (final clean version). A concise list of the proposed edits is as
follows:

   •   District Designation – The current SD District name appears to denote two-family
       development (typically shown as R-2-XX), rather than a density maximum in its current
       formatting. Changing the 2 to 2.67 will more accurately reflect the proposed maximum
       density. And the “A” denotes animal rights.
   •   Name Change – The applicant’s last name is now spelled differently, and this amendment
       accurately reflects the family’s current spelling.
   •   Uses – Rather than a lengthy list of allowed uses, simply aligning this area with the uses
       allowed in the R-1-20A Zoning District makes it clearer and simpler.
   •   Development Standards – Simplifies the standards of this zone to mirror that of the R-
       1-20A Zone, except for a few deviations relating to maximum density and lot size
       minimums. Staff has proposed to eliminate all other special standards that were
       previously listed.

The biggest proposed change is related to the increase in density. All other proposed changes
provide clarity and simplification of the existing code. In essence, this is accomplishing a rezone
Amendments to SD(R-2-A) Fluckiger – CA02232022-0006273                                            Page - 3 -


of the property by increasing the number of units that were originally permitted in the creation
of this SD Zone District.

The conceptual subdivision plat provided by the application shows two new lots being created.
The average of those two proposed lots is over 18,000 sq. ft. The two existing lots average just
over 15,000 sq. ft. The overall lot average would be 16,400 for this zone area, with the smallest
lot being just under 14,000 sq. ft.

NON-CONFORMING USES
This Code Amendment would not create any non-conforming use situations.

LAND DEVELOPMENT CODE PURPOSE COMPLIANCE
The Sandy City Land Development Code in 21-1-3 lists the criteria explaining the intent and
purpose of the Ordinance. The purpose is:

       21-1-3 Purpose
       This Code is adopted to implement Sandy City’s General Plan and to promote: public
       health, safety, convenience, aesthetics, welfare; efficient use of land; sustainable land use
       and building practices; transportation options and accessibility; crime prevention; timely
       citizen involvement in land use decision making; and efficiency in development review
       and land use administration. Specifically, this Code is established to promote the
       following purposes:

       1. General
          a. To facilitate the orderly growth and development of Sandy City.
          b. To facilitate adequate provision for transportation, water, sewage, schools, parks, and
             other public requirements.
          c. To stabilize property values.
          d. To enhance the economic well-being of Sandy City and its inhabitants.

       2. Implementation of General Plan
          To coordinate and ensure the implementation of the City’s General Plan through effective
          execution of development review requirements, adequate facility and services review and
          other goals, policies, or programs contained in the General Plan.

       3. Comprehensive, Consistent and Equitable Regulations
          To establish a system of fair, comprehensive, consistent and equitable regulations, standards
          and procedures for review and approval of all proposed land development within the City.

       4. Efficiently and Effectively Managed Procedures
          a. To promote fair procedures that are efficient and effective in terms of time and expense.
          b. To be effective and responsive in terms of the allocation of authority and delegation of
              powers and duties among ministerial, appointed, and elected officials.
          c. To foster a positive customer service attitude and to respect the rights of all applicants
              and affected citizens.

One of the stated purposes of the City’s land use ordinances is to facilitate the orderly growth and
development of Sandy City. Some of the general purposes of the City’s Development Code are to
implement Sandy City’s General Plan, and to promote the following public policies: public health,
safety, convenience, aesthetics, welfare; efficient use of land; sustainable land use and building
Amendments to SD(R-2-A) Fluckiger – CA02232022-0006273                                             Page - 4 -


practices; transportation options and accessibility; crime prevention; timely citizen involvement in
land use decision making; and efficiency in development review and land use administration.

GENERAL PLAN COMPLIANCE
The General Plan encourages appropriate development standards for all uses and zoning categories
within Sandy City. This code amendment would further that goal and objective.

STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission forward a positive recommendation to the City
Council to amend Title 21, Chapter 19, Special Development (SD) Districts, Section 26, SD(R-2-A)
Fluckiger District, of the Sandy Municipal Code, as shown in Exhibit “A,” based on the following
findings:

1.      Compliance with the Purpose of the Land Development Code by promoting and facilitating
        the orderly growth and development of Sandy City.

2.      Compliance with the Goals and Policies of the General Plan by establishing appropriate
        development standards for all uses and zoning categories within Sandy City.

Planner:




Mike Wilcox
Zoning Administrator

File Name: S:\USERS\PLN\STAFFRPT\2022\CA02232022-0006273 SD(R-2-A) FLUCKIGER AMENDMENTS\STAFF REPORT.DOCX
