                                                                                         10000 South Centennial

                                      Sandy City                                         Parkway Suite 231
                                                                                         Sandy, UT 84070

                                     Council Office                                      O| 801-568-7141
                                                                                         Sandy.Utah.Gov



                                            Memorandum

                                            January 28, 2022

To:              Sandy City Council Members

Cc:              Mayor Zoltanski

From:            Council Member Alison Stroud

Subject:         First Reading: Straw Default Choice Resolution




Straws and Plastic Waste
The average American will use 38,000 straws in their lifetime. Every year, Americans alone go through
500 million straws every day, or 182.5 billion straws a year. These straws pollute the earth both before
and after their use. The production of plastics used to make straws contribute approximately 70 million
tons of CO2 emission per year and is projected to make up 15% of the global annual carbon budget by
2050. After these straws are used and discarded, they pollute our landfills, oceans, beaches, and more.
In landfills, plastic straws can take anywhere between 500 to 1000 years to fully photodegrade.
Although plastic straws are not a significant component of global waste stream by weight or volume,
they are one of the most found items in coastal litter cleanups around the world. In 2017, 106 countries
came together for the International Coastal Cleanup, where plastic straws and stirrers were the 7th most
prevalent item collected. In 2018, USA Today published the article “Top 10 Trash Items Found Littering
Beaches and Waterways- and the Weirdest” with data that indicated plastic straws and stirrers were the
6th most common item collected, only three spots behind plastic beverage bottles, the likes of which
Sandy City has already pledged to stop distributing for city events in the name of environmental health.

In Utah, straws contribute to the microplastics that find their way into our water sources. Microplastics
are particles that result from the breakdown of larger plastic items, like water bottles, bags, or straws.
Professors Janice Brahney and Sally Rocks of Utah State University, study microplastics in Utah’s air and
waters. Brahney stated in an article with KSL, that in “any given gallon of water, whether you take it
from within a river in the city or high up in the mountain headwaters, is going to have plastic in it.”
Rocks notes that Utahns consume up to 40,000 plastic particles each year, and while this is not
immediately harmful to humans, the consumption of microplastics can cause digestive and lung damage
to smaller organisms, like our fish. Microplastics can also make the surface of Utah waters “active and
sticky” meaning they attract pesticides, herbicides, and heavy metals.

The Default Choice Approach for Encouraging Less Plastic Use
Cities and states around the country have taken on the plastic straw debate in numerous ways. As of
Sept. of 2018, there were 31 ordinances in the United States. Sixteen are full bans, six are partial bans,
and nine are default choice modifications.
                                                                                         10000 South Centennial

                                     Sandy City                                          Parkway Suite 231
                                                                                         Sandy, UT 84070

                                    Council Office                                       O| 801-568-7141
                                                                                         Sandy.Utah.Gov

Outright bans prohibit a food or beverage establishment from providing plastic straws entirely to
costumers. Partial bans include a tax or fee option or a voluntary action that either requires
establishments to levy a fee or tax on straws at the point of purchase or encourages establishments to
voluntarily reduce their use of straws. Default choice modification requires establishments to provide
straws to customers only when requested.

Default Choice Modification (DCM) resolutions pose the most positive attributes with the least negative
effects. DCM policies help “nudge” consumers into a new behavior by intervening in an individual’s
choice architecture and helps adjust behavior in a predictable way. These nudges help lead to a more
effective change in choice or behavior. Outright bans often have unintended consequences, such as
causing citizens to respond with resistance or reactance. When an individual perceives a threat or
possible elimination of their behavioral freedom, they actively resist or try to restore that threatened
freedom. In short, bans may cause an individual to dig in their heels and resist change, while DCM
promotes a “nudging” strategy that preserves a sense of behavior freedom.

When it comes to straws, DCM also capitalizes on the human tendency to choose the course of action
that demands the least amount of effort. If the default option in a restaurant or other establishment is
to hand a straw to a costumer without asking, it is more likely the costumer will use and dispose of the
straw. However, if the default option is to not distribute straws, costumers are more less likely to take
the additional step of asking for one, thus limiting the consumption and henceforth discarding of plastic
straws.

DCM is not an outright ban on straws. Through a resolution, Sandy will encourage businesses and
restaurants to cut back on their straw usage by changing their default behavior. Straws will still be
provided to customers who either need or want a straw.

Next Steps
After careful consideration, as well as input from staff and administration, I believe a resolution is more
appropriate than an ordinance. I feel strongly that an awareness of the impact we have on our
environment is key to creating lasting change. Council feedback is crucial. In 2018, Council Member
Robinson sponsored a no idling ordinance, intending to address air pollution. Support was widespread
with administration and the Council voting 6-1 in favor. A default choice resolution for straws takes
another step toward improving our air quality by reducing pollutants created during production,
respecting our environment by minimizing the frequency of straws found in our waterways, and
strengthening our path toward a more sustainable future. I am looking for feedback, as well as support,
before moving forward and crafting a resolution that promotes an awareness of the choices we make.


Education and Outreach
Outreach and customer awareness is a crucial step in the default choice modification policy process. Not
only is it important for consumers to not place blame or negative assumptions on businesses, but
studies show that awareness of the environmental benefits to skipping straws can encourage the
participation and effectiveness of the “nudge” strategy.
                                                                                       10000 South Centennial

                                    Sandy City                                         Parkway Suite 231
                                                                                       Sandy, UT 84070

                                   Council Office                                      O| 801-568-7141
                                                                                       Sandy.Utah.Gov

If a default choice resolution is passed, it must be paired with adequate education and outreach.
Funding should be considered for potential literature and materials for restaurants and food and
beverage providers in case their customers have questions.

An education campaign on City social media will also be beneficial in raising consumer awareness on the
negative impact on the environment that straws have. The nudge mentality will create the best results if
consumers also understand why they are being encouraged to change their learned or default behavior.
