--- Page 1 ---

[Sandy City logo]
SANDY CITY COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT

JAMES SORENSEN COMMUNITY
DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR

MONICA ZOLTANSKI
MAYOR

CLIFFORD STRACHAN
CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER

MEMORANDUM
April 21, 2022

To:       Planning Commission
From:     Community Development Department
Subject:  Real Salt Lake Soccer Stadium (Rio Tinto Stadium)      SPR-06-04
          2021 Parking & Access Management Plan -                (RC) zone
          Annual Update
          9256 S. State Street
          [Community # 2 – Civic Center]

HEARING NOTICE:  This item has been noticed to property owners within a specified area around
                 the stadium property, which is beyond 500 feet.

PROPERTY CASE HISTORY
CASE NUMBER   CASE SUMMARY
SPR 06-40     Real Salt Lake Stadium Parking and Access Management Plan approved by
              Planning Commmission in 2008. Annual updates have occurred since then.

BACKGROUND
On June 19, 2008, the Planning Commission reviewed and approved the Final Parking and Access
Management Plan for the Real Salt Lake Soccer Stadium. One of the conditions of approval required
that Real return to the Planning Commission annually to review and update the plan. Real Soccer
and their Transportation Engineer, Ryan Hales, have updated their plan for the 2022 season as shown
in the attached document. A synopsis of the 2022 plan changes are included in an attached document
to the updated 2022 Parking and Access Management Plan.

ANALYSIS
The applicant's Transportation Engineer, Ryan Hales, has prepared revisions to the 2022 Parking and
Access Management Plan for the Real Soccer Stadium and will present those revisions to the
Planning Commission for review and approval (see attached updated Parking and Access
Management Plan Quick Facts) at the meeting.

With the addition of 930 stalls in the Mountain America parking structure (2019) that are available to
the public after 6:00 pm and on the weekends there will be a surplus of parking stalls that are owned
or available to Rio Tinto Stadium.

In addition to soccer games, there are a number of other programmed events that are planned to be
held at the stadium property including: car shows, community run/walk events, mini-concerts on the
East Plaza, and Sandy City movie night. Majority of these events are projected to have up to 5,000
attendees and should not cause a parking issue. (See attached list of events planned at the stadium)

--- Page 2 ---

Real Salt Lake Stadium Parking and Access Management Plan.    SPR-06-40        Page - 2 -

The Planning Commission may remember that during the 2020 review the Commission asked for the
parking report to provide information regarding event scheduling conflicts and to invite Sandy
Police to attend the annual Planning Commission meetings to provide additional information
regarding traffic/parking issues.

Page 6-7 of the 2022 update does include a summary of the 2022 parking evaluation. There is
information regarding the number of conflicts with surrounding uses such as the MACU Expo
Center and the Hale Center Theatre. However, it is not anticipated that Hale Center Theatre will ever
use the full 930-stall parking garage, leaving space for overflow RSL parking, if needed. RSL does
not show the Mountain America parking garage by Hale Center Theatre on their official parking
map, so RSL guests will not be directed there.

Captain Cory Hess from the Sandy City Police Department should be in attendance to talk about
traffic and parking enforcement over the last year. Other than a few issues while Monroe Street was
under construction, there have not been any concerns that staff is aware of.

STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review and approve the updated 2022 season Parking and
Access Management Plan for the Real Salt Lake Soccer Stadium located at 9256 S. State Street.

Planner:                                      Reviewed by: [signature]

[signature]

Brian McCuistion
Planning Director

10000 Centennial Parkway | Sandy, Utah 84070 | p: 801.568.7250 | f: 801.568.7278 | sandy.utah.gov
