                               MEMORANDUM
                                           July 7, 2022


 To:          Planning Commission
 From:        Community Development Department
 Subject:     Centennial Village – Master Site Plan and Phase 1            SPR12282021-006237
              Preliminary Site Plan Review                                          4.27 Acres
              235 West Sego Lily Drive                                           CBD-A&C Zone
              [Community #9 – South Towne]


MEETING NOTICE: This item has been noticed to property owners within 500 feet of the subject
                area.



                                  PROPERTY CASE HISTORY
  CASE NUMBER                                    CASE SUMMARY
    SPR# 98-13         Sandy City Center Master Plan
    SPR# 08-16         The Proscenium Master Development Plan
  SPR-05-10-1294       The Meridian Master Development Plan
  SPR-03-16-4983       The Prestige Master Plan
  SPR-06-18-5420       Centennial Towers Master Plan Review
  SPR-03-19-5631       Centennial Towers (Revised)
  SPR-12-19-5772       Centennial Towers (2nd Revised)

REQUEST
Mr. Travis Naisbitt of NWL Architecture, represents the property owners (Monroe Holdings, LLC,
Continental/Miller Apartments, LLC; Tower Distribution Center, LLC) of several parcels located
at approximately 235 West Sego Lily Drive. He has submitted an application for revised Master
Site Plan review and is also requesting a preliminary site plan review of phase 1 of this Centennial
Village Project. The proposal consists of 4.27 acre block.

The master site plan is a new proposal for this site that has now seen several iterations of the
past fourteen (14) years. The proposed revised master site plan indicates that the project is to
be completed in four (4) phases. This first phase of this project includes one (1) new building on
the southwest corner of the block (Monroe Street & 10080 South), a remodel of the existing
Centennial Village Master Site Plan & Ph 1 Prelim Review – SPR12282021-006237             Page - 2 -


                                                                  office/retail building along Sego
                                                                  Lily Drive, and expansion of the
                                                                  existing parking garage. Phase 2
                                                                  would consist of a new building
                                                                  along 10080 South, further
                                                                  expansion of the parking garage,
                                                                  and development amenities on
                                                                  the roof of the parking garage.
                                                                  Phase 3 would add a new
                                                                  building     along     Centennial
                                                                  Parkway and further expansion
                                                                  of the parking garage. The final
                                                                  phase would add a new building
                                                                  on the corner of Sego Lily Drive
                                                                  and Centennial Parkway. The
                                                                  buildings are now mostly
                                                                  apartments (334 units) with
                                                                  ground floor commercial space
                                                                  (36,837 sq. ft.).

BACKGROUND
There have been several attempts at developing this site over the past couple of decades. The
first building was constructed on this site in the early 2000’s. This was the first phase of several
planned buildings that did not get built. There have been a couple other development proposals
for this site over the years known as the Procenium, the Meridian, the Prestige, and Centennial
Towers. These visions for the site did not become realized after going through the various stages
planning review process. The last master plan for this block was approved on September 6, 2018.

The property is bordered by Monroe Street on the west, Sego Lily Drive on the north, Centennial
Parkway on the east and on the south side by a planned extension of a public street, 10080 South.
The properties surrounding this development are mostly developed with some green field areas.
To the west is the Hilton Garden Inn and some undeveloped land owned by the RDA (zoned CBD-
A&C), to the north is the Sandy Justice Court Building (zoned CBD-O), to the east is the
Promenade (zoned CBD-
P), and to the south is an
office building (zoned
(CBD-O). The property is
part of the South Village of
the Cairns Master Plan and
is subject to the Cairns
Design Standards.

NOTICE
Notices were mailed to
property owners within a
500-foot radius of the
subject parcel to notify
them of the Planning
Centennial Village Master Site Plan & Ph 1 Prelim Review – SPR12282021-006237              Page - 3 -


Commission meeting. A neighborhood meeting was not held for this project as there are no
residents within a 500-foot radius of the proposal.

ANALYSIS
Important design issues or considerations on this proposed development in the CBD-A&C Zone
that will need to be reviewed by the Planning Commission include: mix of uses, building heights,
lot coverage, building design and materials, building articulation, street level building entries,
setbacks and streetscape profiles.

This project is also subject to the Cairns Design Standards. These have requirements that
involve virtually all aspects of the built environment including: park strips, design priority
(pedestrian/vehicular/shared), traffic calming, building frontages, building massing,
architectural design elements, landscaping, public realm furnishings, and other site design
elements. They are seeking several exceptions from the requirements as part of this review, but
the applicant has not clearly demonstrated the enhancements proposed to offset the exceptions
sought.

In the CBD-A&C Zone, the development is required to have at least four (4) different uses overall
and three (3) present in the first phase. The use list is the following: residential, office, a group
of retail shops, health spa, theater, public/private or quasi-public schools, hotel, business or
financial service, or restaurant. The Planning Commission will need to determine if this standard
is adequately met.

The first phase includes a new nine (9) story residential building (southwest corner of the block
along Monroe Street & 10080 South) with ground floor retail and townhomes fronting the street.
It would also include a remodel of the existing retail/office building along Sego Lily Drive. This
phase contains 108 aparment units and 20,145 sq. ft. of commercial space. Phase 2 would add a
new six (6) story residential building along 10080 South with ground floor townhome units
facing the street. Phase 3 would consist of a seven (7) story residential building with ground floor
commercial areas along Centennial Parkway. Finally, phase 4 would finish the project with
another nine (9) story residential building with ground floor commercial area on the northeast
corner of the block (Sego Lily Drive and Centennial Parkway).

The density allowed in this zone is to be determined by the Planning Commission based on the
availability of a parking structure and proposed amenities. These proposed residential units will
have direct accesss to a parking structure. The proposed amenities won’t be provided until phase
2 and must equate to at least fifteen percent (15%) of the gross residentail building area. The
applicant will need to provide further information as to whether this standard has been met. The
Planning Commission will need to determine if this proposed phasing and density meets this
requirement.

Access:
Primary vehicular access for the development will come from Monroe Street a new access point
into the existing parking garage (to Level 2). A new public street will also be built on the south
side of the development, 10080 South, where an additional access point will be added for the
existing parking garage (to Level 1). In addition, side treatments of parkstrips, sidewalks, and
urban furnishings will be added to all streets that will improve pedestrian mobility and comfort
to the area in the first phase of development. Each building will be primarily oriented to the
Centennial Village Master Site Plan & Ph 1 Prelim Review – SPR12282021-006237             Page - 4 -


street and encourage pedestrian activity. The proposal shows each of the four public streets will
have buildings that face onto it. The proposed street improvements are designed to implement
the Cairns Design Standards.

Parking:
The existing development was constructed with a three (3) level parking garage, but no way to
access the upper two (2) levels. The proposed development would expand the footprint of the
garage to the south, add one (1) more level for roof top amenities. New access ramps will be
added to access each of the three (3) levels of parking with no internal ramping. Level 1 access
will come from the west side of 10800 South. Level 2 will come from Monroe Street, with a future
access also being added from Centennial Village in Phase 3. Level 3 will have an access from the
east side of 10800 South. The garage will have a capacity of 566 stalls once all phases are
constructed. Phase 1 will have access to 330 stalls. There will be sufficient parking for the first
phase of the development when on-street parking is included in the calculations. Future phases
will not have sufficient parking based on the proposed master development plan. The applicant
will need to seek parking reductions for future phases. Sego Lily Drive and Centennial Parkway
are designed with on-street parallel parking, and those stalls can be counted towards meeting
the parking requirement in this zone. Additional on-street parking is proposed for the new
10080 South Street. A total of twenty-three (23) on-street parking stalls will be available for this
project.

Architectural Design & Materials:
All buildings in phase 1 have been reviewed by the Architectural Review Committee (ARC) and
received a positive recommendation to proceed through Preliminary Review. Their
recommendation will require that this project be further reviewed at final (see ARC minutes).
There were some concerns regarding the color samples and physical material samples that were
provided. The buildings are designed to relate to one another without using the same design.
They are proposing to use a polished granite as the base material on the new building along
Monroe Street, with EIFS (stucco) and simulated wood siding as the materails for the middle and
top of the buildings. The existing building along Sego Lily will be remodled with similar materials
but will leave the brick material on the building base. The architect is hoping to achieve a
“mountain meets urban” design ethos with the mix and placement of materials consistent with
Cairns Master Plan.

All future phases of this Centennial Village Master Plan will need to be reviewed by the
Architectural Review Committee and the Planning Commission as each phase goes through the
site plan review process. Adherance to the Architectural Design Standards and the Cairns Design
Standards must be met, including a limitation of stucco to twenty percent (20%) on all sides.
Centennial Village Master Site Plan & Ph 1 Prelim Review – SPR12282021-006237             Page - 5 -



Building Setbacks:
The CBD-A&C Zone requires buildings to be built up to the street at a zero lot line setback, after
the approved streetscape design, and that primary building entrances be oriented to the street.
The code also stresses variations for building articulation and activation of the pedestrian areas
with courtyards, outside dining areas, etc.

The Cairns Design Standards call for a ten foot (10’) setback from the public walkway along
Centennial Parkway and 10080 South, and an eight foot (8’) setback along Monroe Street and
Sego Lily Drive. This setback is after an eight foot (8’) sidewalk and eight foot (8’) parkstrip
behind the curb and gutter. These standards call for the parkstrip and sidewalk area to be
dedicated as part of the public right-of-way and the building setback area to remain under
private ownership, but still part of the pedestrian realm. The new building in phase 1, will meet
that criteria, with exception of the existing building on Sego Lily. Future phases will either need
to meet this criteria or seek exceptions at that time.

All right-of-way dedications mentioned above would occur with the recording of a subdivision
plat that will be required before final approval can be granted for this phase. The dedication
along Monroe Street would need to be reduced to fourteen feet (14’) from the typical sixteen
(16’) dedication due to the existing building along Sego Lily.

Landscaping & Open Space:
The applicant has submitted a full landscape plan for the site. Staff has found that it generally
meets the requirements specific to the Cairns Design Standards, the CBD-A&C Zone and those of
Chapter 15A-25 entitled Landscaping Standards. The plans reflect a variety of deciduous and
coniferous trees, shrubs, and perennial flowers. This plan shows urban amenities such as street
furniture, trash receptacles, bike racks, and planter areas along these street corridors. They are
beneficial to the project design and enhance the pedestrian experience. The development plan
also includes a roof top landscape area on top of the parking garage. All residential units are
within ¼ mile walking distance to a publicly accessible open space (the Promenade).

Cairns Design Standards:
The developer is still working with staff on the review of the Cairns Design Standards. While the
project is largely meeting many of these standards, Staff would suggest a full review of this
element at final review. At that time the Planning Commission could determining approval of any
needed exceptions and required enhancements. The applicant may discuss their proposed
enhancements in concept during the meeting, but staff would recommend waiting until final
review to make a final determination.

CONCERNS
Staff has the following concerns regarding this proposal as submitted by the applicant:
    1. Number of Uses. The applicant is removing the existing office area and converting it to
        residential units. There is not a specific office space, other than the ground floor
        commercial space that could be used for retail, office or restaurant uses. While the
        ground floor commercial space is flexible in it use, the intent of the code is to have
        distinct uses and areas within the buildings to ensure a total of four (4) is implemented.
        While staff is supportive of the ground floor activation of commercial users, that isn’t the
        intent of the code and may not satisfactorily meet this code requirement. We
Centennial Village Master Site Plan & Ph 1 Prelim Review – SPR12282021-006237             Page - 6 -


   2. Density and Amenities. This is something that the Planning Commission will need to
      review and determine the appropriate amount of density and mix of uses. The mix has
      skewed further to being a primarily residential project that lacks three (3) distinct uses
      in the first phase and doesn’t have four (4) overall in the master site plan. The phasing
      of the amenities is also a concern.
   3. Stucco. Some of the elevations in the remodel of the existing building in phase 1 show
      that this limitation of stucco exceeds twenty percent (20%). This will need to be revised
      before final review.

STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Motion #1
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission approve the Master Site Plan for the Centennial
Village development located at approximately 235 West Sego Lily Drive, subject to the following
conditions:

Conditions:

   1. That the developer proceed through the site plan review procedures for all phases of this
      master plan prior to any onsite construction can begin within each phase.

   2. That the details of architectural form and design of proposed buildings and parking
      structures beyond the first phase be further reviewed through future site plan reviews of
      each phase to ensure compliance with the Development Code.

   3. That each future phase be subject to providing adequate parking plans to ensure that the
      existing phases will not be negatively affected by future development or create parking
      impacts on the surrounding properties.

   4. That an architectural theme be followed for all buildings and parking structures that
      ensures that each building relates to one another without being the same.

   5. That a subdivision plat be prepared, reviewed, and recorded for these properties to unify
      the subject properties into one parcel and carry out the required public right-of-way
      dedications.

   6. That the master site plan be revised to clearly indicate a total of four (4) land uses will be
      implemented.

Motion #2
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission find that the preliminary site plan review is
complete for Phase 1 of the Centennial Village development located at approximately 235 W
Sego Lily Dr, subject to the following conditions:

Conditions:

   1. That street improvements be carried out according to Plan and Profiles approved
      by the Sandy City Engineer and specifically:
Centennial Village Master Site Plan & Ph 1 Prelim Review – SPR12282021-006237           Page - 7 -


          a. That Centennial Parkway be further improved and dedicated to include a 16’
             wide streetscape behind the curb and gutter. The existing street trees be
             required to be remain and protected in place during construction.
          b. That 10080 South Street be dedicated and improved to a 46-foot width including
             curb, gutter, asphalt, and streetscape (including 2 inch caliper street trees) on
             the north side of the street. The varieties of street trees required be compliant
             with the Cairns Design Standards. Street trees shall be coordinated with street
             light locations, sight triangles at driveways and intersections as well as other
             utilities.
          c. That Monroe Street be further improved and dedicated to include a 14’ wide
             streetscape behind the curb and gutter streetscape (including 2 inch caliper
             street trees). The varieties of street trees required be compliant with the Cairns
             Design Standards. Street trees shall be coordinated with street light locations,
             sight triangles at driveways and intersections as well as other utilities.
          d. That Sego Lily be further improved and dedicated to include a 16’ wide
             streetscape behind the curb and gutter. The existing street trees be required to
             be remain and protected in place during construction.

   2. That the developer proceed through the final site plan review process with staff. This
      project will be required to return to Planning Commission for final review prior to
      the start of any site construction. The Final Site Plan shall be in compliance with all
      Development Code requirements and those modifications required by the Planning
      Commission.

   3. That the development comply with all Building & Safety, Fire and Life Safety Codes
      applicable to this type of use.

   4. That the developer be responsible to meet all provisions of the CDB-A&C Zone and
      Cairns Design Standards.

   5. That any exceptions to the Cairns Design Standards be reviewed at final review.

   6. All utility boxes (i.e. transformers, switch gear, telephone, cable tv, etc.) shall be shown
      on the site plan and shall be placed underground or moved behind the front setback of
      the buildings and screened from view, preferably located along the proposed alley.
      Each box shall be shown in its exact location and shall be noted with its exact height,
      width and length. Building utility meters shall be mounted to the side or rear elevation
      or screened with a wing wall if fronting a public street.

   7. That the developer be responsible for the placement of a temporary 6-foot-high chain
      link fence around the perimeter of the project during the construction phase of the
      project for security. Said fence shall also be required to include fabric to prohibit
      blowing dust problems, if it becomes necessary or if it is required by the Community
      Development Department during Site Plan Review.

   8. That the applicant comply with all department requirements as noted in all
      Preliminary Review letters prior to submittal for final site plan review with staff.
Centennial Village Master Site Plan & Ph 1 Prelim Review – SPR12282021-006237                   Page - 8 -


    9. That the architectural materials be further reviewed and approved during the final
       review phase by the Architectural Review Committee and the Planning Commission.

    10. That the project contain three (3) distinct land uses in this first phase.

    11. That the amenities illustrated on the preliminary site plan be a requirement of this
        development in the phase determined by the Planning Commission.

    12. That project signs be allowed upon receiving a detailed sign package that complies
        with the Sandy City Sign Ordinance. Signs will need to be reviewed at final review with
        Staff.

    13. A subdivision plat must be recorded before Final Site Plan approval is granted for this
        development.


Planner:




Mike Wilcox
Planning Director
File Name: S:\USERS\PLN\STAFFRPT\2022\SPR12282021-006237_CENTENNIAL VILLAGE\STAFF REPORT.DOCX
