            S AN DY C I T Y C O M M U N I T Y D E V E L O P M E N T
                                                                                          JAMES SORENSEN COMMUNITY
                                                                                             DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR

                                                                                               MONICA ZOLTANSKI
                                                                                                    MAYOR

                                                                                               CLIFFORD STRACHAN
                                                                                          CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER




                                 MEMORANDUM
                                              July 7, 2022


 To:           Planning Commission
 From:         Community Development Department
 Subject:      Lone Peak Trailhead (Preliminary Site Plan Review               SPR05132022-006322
               and Conditional Use Permit)                                     CUP05132022-006323
               10042 South 700 East                                                     4.05 Acres
               [Community #10, Crescent White Willows]                                   Zone: OS


HEARING NOTICE: This item has been noticed to property owners within 500 feet of the subject area. A
                   physical sign was also posted on the property.


                                   PROPERTY CASE HISTORY
   Case Number                                     Case Summary
 SPR# 99-14              Planning Commission determined preliminary site plan for 30 Acre Park to
                         be complete.

REQUEST
Mr. Daniel Sonntag, representing Salt Lake County Parks and Recreation, has submitted an
application for a conditional use permit and preliminary site plan review for an improvement
project of the proposed Lone Peak Trailhead. The plan contains a new paved trailhead parking lot
across the street to the north from the existing parking lot. It also proposes the relocation of the
existing fire access gates to the north of the new parking lot.

BACKGROUND
The proposed project is located adjacent to 10120 South. The property is zoned SD(OS) (Special
Development District, Open Space Zone). ‘Public and private parks and recreation areas’ are a
conditional use within the zone. To the north, east, and south is Dimple Dell Park, in the SD(OS)
Zone. To the west are single family homes in both the R-1-8 and R-1-15A Zones.
Lone Peak Trailhead – SPR05132022-006322 & CUP05132022-006323                            Page - 2 -


NOTICE
Notices were mailed to property owners within a 500-foot radius of the subject property to notify
them of the Planning Commission meeting. Additionally, a physical sign was posted on the
property. The applicant also held a neighborhood meeting on June 15, 2022. No concerns were
voiced regarding the proposed improvements.

CONDITIONAL USE ANALYSIS

Conditional Use consideration for: ‘Public and private parks and recreation areas’ in the
SD(OS) Special Development District.

Under the Sandy City Development Code, the Planning Commission, through the Conditional Use
process, can: approve Conditional Uses if no mitigation of reasonably anticipated detrimental
impacts is necessary; approve Conditional Uses, subject to reasonable conditions designed to
mitigate or eliminate reasonably anticipated detrimental impacts; or deny Conditional Uses, if it
is determined that reasonably anticipated detrimental impacts cannot be adequately mitigated. The
burden of mitigating these impacts or effects is the responsibility of the applicant and not of the
municipality or adjacent property owners (Section 21-33-04).

Compliance with Section 21-33-04 Conditional Use Permit:
In order to achieve compliance with the standards set forth herein, the City may impose conditions
that address these standards:

1.    Size, configuration and location of the site and the proposed site plan layout.

The layout is properly designed and located. The site is adequately sized for the proposed new
parking lot and amenities.

2.    Proposed site ingress and egress to existing and proposed roads and streets.

The ingress and egress to and from the site will be adequate for use by these facilities. There are
two accesses proposed into the parking lot from 10120 South.

3.     The adequacy, provision, relocation or protection of public facilities and amenities,
including roads and street, culinary water, secondary water, sanitary sewer, storm drainage, public
safety and fire protections, and other utilities.

The public facilities that already exist at the site will support the additional amenities that have
been proposed with this application.

 4.    Design, location and amount of off-street parking, loading areas and solid waste disposal
 and collection areas.

 Adequate vehicle parking will be provided by the surface parking on the site. 49 public parking
 spaces are being proposed. The existing parking lot provides 37 parking stalls. In total, the
 proposed project would make 86 parking spaces available to the public after completion.
Lone Peak Trailhead – SPR05132022-006322 & CUP05132022-006323                              Page - 3 -


5.     Site circulation patterns for vehicular, pedestrian and other traffic.

Site circulation will be sufficient for the use as designed on the site plan. 10120 South serves as
the access to the trailhead area. With two available accesses, vehicles can adequately navigate
through the parking lot and back out to the road. Additionally, the plans call for sidewalk and
ADA ramps that provide adequate walkability of the site.

6.     Mass, size, number, location, design, exterior features, materials, and colors of buildings,
structures and other facilities.

This standard is not generally applicable

7.     The location and design of all site features, including proposed signage, lighting, and refuse
collection.

Site signage is not included in this review but must be by separate application. There are existing
street lights along 10120 South, and the possibility exists that one may need to be relocated in
order to facilitate construction as proposed in the provided plans.

8.     The provision of useable open space, public features, and recreational amenities.

The proposed parking lot will make 49 parking spaces available for public use of the trailhead,
in addition to the existing parking lot that contains 37 parking stalls. This would make a total of
86 parking spaces available to the public.

9.     Fencing, screening and landscape treatments, and other features designed to increase the
attractiveness and safety of the site and protect adjoining owners from noise, visual and other
impacts.

The site landscaping will be installed as part of the corresponding site plan approval as shown
on the landscape plan attached to this staff report. This standard will be met.

10. Measures directed at minimizing or eliminating possible nuisance factors including, but
not limited to noise, vibrations, smoke, dust, dirt, debris, plant materials, odors, gases, noxious
matter, heat, glare, electromagnetic disturbances, and radiation.

This facility will be subject to the noise limits imposed by the County Health Department. There
will not be any unusual vibration, smoke, dust, and debris or plant materials nuisance factors
after development of the site.

11. Measures designed to protect the natural features of the site, including wetlands and
drainage ways, ground water protection, soils, wildlife and plant life.

It is proposed to protect in place the existing landscape buffer on the west end of the subject area
that contains 12 existing trees. Once existing irrigation is cut to the trees, temporary irrigation is
to be provided until the irrigation system is restored.
Lone Peak Trailhead – SPR05132022-006322 & CUP05132022-006323                              Page - 4 -


12.    The regulation of operating hours for activities affecting normal schedules and functions;

The trailhead opens at 6:00 a.m. daily, and closes at 10:30 p.m. Closing is enforceable by the
police who patrol the area. The operating hours are reasonable for the area.

13. Identifying a time for regular review and monitoring, as determined necessary, to ensure
the use continues to operate in compliance with all conditions and requirements of approval.

The conditional use will be reviewable upon legitimate complaint, and any new impacts arising
can then be addressed by the Planning Commission, through the imposition of additional
mitigating measures.

14. Measures to ensure compliance with all conditions and requirements of approval including
but not limited to bonds, letters of credit, improvement agreements, the agreements to conditions,
road maintenance funds, and restrictive covenants.

Measures to ensure compliance will be enforced by the Sandy City staff through detailed site plan
review, upon citizen complaint or by staff observance and will be adequate to mitigate potential
violations of approval conditions.

15. Such other conditions determined reasonable and necessary by the City to allow the
operation of the proposed conditional use, at the proposed location in compliance with the
requirements of this Code.

To mitigate any potential negative impacts to the City and the neighborhood, staff suggest the
conditions listed at the bottom of this report in the Staff Recommendation for the Conditional Use
Permit, numbers 1 to 2.

SITE PLAN ANALYSIS

Overview:
The proposed Lone Peak Trailhead improvements include a new paved trailhead parking lot across
the street to the north from the existing parking lot. It also proposes the relocation of the existing
fire access gates to the north of the new parking lot.

Access:
Existing access to the project area is via 10120 South.

Parking:
The proposed parking lot will create 49 public parking spaces. The new parking stalls will be 18
feet long and 9 feet wide. A typical parking stall is 20 feet long, but 18 feet is acceptable by
ordinance when it is adjacent to landscaping or a six-foot sidewalk. The parking dimensions
proposed are adequate.

Landscaping:
The applicant has submitted a full landscape plan for the site. Staff has found that it generally
meets the requirements of Chapter 21-25 entitled Landscaping Standards. The plans reflect the
Lone Peak Trailhead – SPR05132022-006322 & CUP05132022-006323                             Page - 5 -


planting of eight (8) new trees and a variety of shrubs, and the installation of 2,577 square feet of
decorative rock xeriscaping. Additionally, 12 existing trees along the west boundary are called out
to be preserved.

CONCERNS
Staff has no concerns with the proposed project.

STAFF RECOMMENDATION #1 (CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT):
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission grant the Conditional Use Permit request to allow
the expansion of “Public and private parks and recreation areas” in the SD(OS) Zone for the Lone
Peak Trailhead project located at 10042 South 700 East, based on the findings and subject to the
following conditions:

Findings:

 1. That the various City Departments and Divisions, including the City Engineer and the
    Transportation Engineer, have preliminarily approved the proposed related site plan.

 2. That the proposed land use request has been reviewed by staff considering the 15 standards
    contained in the Sandy City Development Code, 21-33-04, Conditional Use Process, and
    appropriate and adequate mitigation measures will be implemented or will be imposed as
    deemed necessary to minimize impacts to the surrounding community, subject to the
    following conditions:

Conditions:

   1. That the Conditional Use Permit for expansion of an existing “Public and private parks
      and recreation areas”, be reviewed upon future legitimate citizen complaint or staff
      observation of non-compliance with conditions.

   2. That the applicant be responsible to meet all provisions of the Sandy City Development
      Code and all conditions of approval that are included in this report and as may be imposed
      by the Planning Commission to mitigate the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of
      the proposed uses.

STAFF RECOMMENDATION #2 (SITE PLAN):
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission determine that preliminary site plan review is
complete for the proposed Lone Peak Trailhead project, located at approximately 10042 South
700 East, based upon the following findings and conditions:

Findings:

   1. That the proposed project meets or will meet all the applicable requirements of the Sandy
      City Development Code.

   2. That the construction of an additional parking lot will serve more residents wishing to use
      the trail system.
Lone Peak Trailhead – SPR05132022-006322 & CUP05132022-006323                                     Page - 6 -



Conditions:

    1. That the applicant complies with each department’s comments and redlines throughout the
       preliminary and final review process and that all issues be resolved before final site plan
       approval.

    2. That all City provisions, codes and ordinances are adhered to during the review,
       construction and operations process of this building.

    3. That all signage be reviewed and approved under a separate permit and be in conformance
       with City code.


Planner:



________________________________
Craig Evans
File Name: S:\USERS\PLN\STAFFRPT\2022\SPR05132022-006322 LONE PEAK TRAILHEAD\PLANNING COMMISSION\STAFF REPORT
- SITE PLAN - LONE PEAK TRAILHEAD.DOCX
