               S ANDY C I T Y C O M M U N I T Y D E V E L O P M E N T




                              MEMORANDUM
                                       January 20, 2022


 To:         Planning Commission
 From:       Community Development Department
 Subject:    Main Street Park (Conditional Use Permit)                  CUP12032021-006219
             70 E. 8760 South                                              Zone: R-1-7.5(HS)
             [Community #4 – Historic Sandy]                                       .92 Acres


HEARING NOTICE: This item has been noticed to property owners within 500 feet of the subject
                  property. A physical sign was also posted on the property.

                             PROPERTY CASE HISTORY
   Case Number                           Case Summary




DESCRIPTION OF REQUEST
The applicant, the Sandy City Parks and Recreation Department, is requesting a Conditional Use
Permit for modifications to Main Street Park (see attached letter of request). The park was
created before the requirement was put in place that a conditional use permit be obtained for
‘Parks, public and private’. Because a new master plan is now being proposed with some
alterations to the park, a conditional use permit must be obtained, as required by the land use
matrix for the R-1-7.5(HS) zone.

The subject property is located on 0.92 acres in the R-1-7.5(HS) Zone. The applicant is also
proposing a phased master plan for future improvements to Main Street Park. The master plan
and preliminary site plan review is also on the agenda for this Planning Commission meeting.

The property is surrounded on all sides by homes in the R-1-7.5(HS) Zone. All the homes are
single-family dwellings, aside from one four-plex across the street to the north.
Main Street Park – CUP12032021-006219                                                         Page 2


NOTICE
Notices were sent to surrounding property owners within 500 feet of the subject property. At the time of
writing this staff report, two comments have been received by telephone in favor of the project.
Additionally, a public meeting was held on January 3, 2022. Zero residents attended the meeting.

ANALYSIS
Under Section 21-07-02(B) of the Sandy City Land Development Code the proposed ‘Park,
public or private’ requires a conditional use permit in the R-1-7.5(HS) zone.

The area is already being used as a public park and has been for years. It was first developed
before there was an ordinance requiring a conditional use permit. The use is not being changed
with the concurrently proposed site plan review. No amenities are being removed. One amenity
is being added – that is a concrete slab and eventually a stage to sit atop it. The other changes are
to refurbish items such as the pavilion, the power panel, and replace the curb and gutter, as well
as replace the existing four-foot sidewalk with a five-foot sidewalk. The proposed enhancements
will be done in different phases as money becomes available. The applicant will work with staff
on individual site plans for the respective phases.

COMPLIANCE WITH SECTION 21-33-4
Staff response in italics.

Under the Sandy City Development Code, the Planning Commission, through the Conditional
Use process, can: approve Conditional Uses if no mitigation of reasonably anticipated
detrimental impacts is necessary; approve Conditional Uses, subject to reasonable conditions
designed to mitigate or eliminate reasonably anticipated detrimental impacts; or deny
Conditional Uses, if it is determined that reasonably anticipated detrimental impacts cannot be
adequately mitigated. The burden of mitigating these impacts or effects is the responsibility of
the applicant and not of the municipality or adjacent property owners (Section 21-33-04).

Compliance with Section 21-33-04 Conditional Use Permit:
In order to achieve compliance with the standards set forth herein, the City may impose
conditions that address these standards:

1.    Size, configuration and location of the site and the proposed site plan layout.

The existing and proposed layout is properly designed and located. The site is adequately sized
for the proposed enhancements.

2.    Proposed site ingress and egress to existing and proposed roads and streets.

 The ingress and egress to and from the site will be adequate for the use.

3.     The adequacy, provision, relocation or protection of public facilities and amenities,
including roads and street, culinary water, secondary water, sanitary sewer, storm drainage,
public safety and fire protections, and other utilities.
Main Street Park – CUP12032021-006219                                                        Page 3


All these public facilities either presently exist at the site and are functioning or are proposed to
be improved and expanded by the proposed site improvements.

4.    Design, location and amount of off-street parking, loading areas and solid waste disposal
and collection areas.

Adequate vehicle parking will be provided by the parallel parking stalls on all sides of the park.

5.     Site circulation patterns for vehicular, pedestrian and other traffic.

Site circulation will be sufficient for the use.

6.     Mass, size, number, location, design, exterior features, materials, and colors of buildings,
structures and other facilities.

 The applicant will work with staff on any proposed upgrades to the existing pavilion.

7.     The location and design of all site features, including proposed signage, lighting, and
refuse collection.

This standard will be met.

8.     The provision of useable open space, public features, and recreational amenities.

This standard is not applicable.

9.     Fencing, screening and landscape treatments, and other features designed to increase the
attractiveness and safety of the site and protect adjoining owners from noise, visual and other
impacts.

This standard will be met.

10. Measures directed at minimizing or eliminating possible nuisance factors including, but
not limited to noise, vibrations, smoke, dust, dirt, debris, plant materials, odors, gases, noxious
matter, heat, glare, electromagnetic disturbances, and radiation.

This use will be subject to the noise limits imposed by the County Health Department. There
will not be any unusual vibration, smoke, dust, and debris or plant materials nuisance factors
after development of the proposed enhancements.

11. Measures designed to protect the natural features of the site, including wetlands and
drainage ways, ground water protection, soils, wildlife and plant life.

This standard is not generally applicable.

12.    The regulation of operating hours for activities affecting normal schedules and functions.
Main Street Park – CUP12032021-006219                                                      Page 4


This standard will be met.

13. Identifying a time for regular review and monitoring, as determined necessary, to ensure
the use continues to operate in compliance with all conditions and requirements of approval.

The conditional use will be reviewable upon legitimate complaint, and any new impacts arising
can then be addressed by the Planning Commission, through the imposition of additional
mitigating measures.

14. Measures to ensure compliance with all conditions and requirements of approval
including but not limited to bonds, letters of credit, improvement agreements, the agreements to
conditions, road maintenance funds, and restrictive covenants.

Measures to ensure compliance will be enforced by the Sandy City staff through detailed
building and site plan review, upon citizen complaint or by staff observance and will be
adequate to mitigate potential violations of approval conditions.

15. Such other conditions determined reasonable and necessary by the City to allow the
operation of the proposed conditional use, at the proposed location in compliance with the
requirements of this Code.

To mitigate any potential negative impacts to the City and the neighborhood, staff suggest the
conditions listed at the bottom of this report, 1 to 5.

CONCERNS
Staff has no concerns with the proposed use in the R-1-7.5(HS) Zone.

STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission approve the Conditional Use Permit for
Main Street Park, on property located at 70 E. 8760 South, to allow a public park in the
R-1-7.5(HS) zone as described in the staff report based upon the following findings and
subject to the following conditions:

Findings

   1. The proposed use meets the intent of the R-1-7.5(HS) Zone.

   2.The existing use and proposed enhancements should have minimal impact on the
     surrounding uses.

Conditions

   1. That the applicant complies with all Building & Safety, and Fire & Life Codes.

   2. That the applicant be responsible for meeting all provisions of the Sandy City
   Development Code (or as approved by the Planning Commission), and all conditions
   of approval imposed by the Planning Commission.
Main Street Park – CUP12032021-006219                                                        Page 5



   3. That this Conditional Use Permit be reviewed upon legitimate complaint.

   4. That the applicant works with staff on any proposed changes to the building and
   landscaping.

   5. That the applicant proceed through site plan review process for the different phases
   of development as outlined in the Master Plan and Site Plan Review staff report
   (SPR12032021-006220).




Planner: ___________________________        Reviewed by: __________________________
Craig P. Evans – Planner                    Brian McCuistion – Planning Director
