                                   S ANDY CITY CO M M U N ITY D EV ELO PM EN T
                                                                                                                           JAMES SORENSEN COMMUNITY
                                                                                                                             DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR

                                                                                                                               MONICA ZOLTANSKI
                                                                                                                                   MAYOR

                                                                                                                                  SHANE E. PACE
                                                                                                                           CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER




                                           MEMORANDUM
                                                    September 1, 2022


     To:        City Council via Planning Commission
     From:      Community Development Department
     Subject:   Amendments to Mobile Food and Street Vendor                                                 CA08112022-0006381
                Businesses
                Amend Title 21, Chapter 11, Special Use Standards,
                Section 19, Mobile Food and Street Vendor
                Businesses, and Title 21, Chapter 37, Definitions,
                of the Sandy Municipal Code


   HEARING NOTICE: This item has been noticed on public websites, sent to affected entities and
                   posted in three public locations at least 10 days prior to the Public Hearing.



                                         PROPERTY CASE HISTORY
         Case Number                                         Case Summary
        CODE-8-15-4596            Code amendments to Title 15A, Chapters 11, Special Uses, and 37,
                                  Definitions, of the Sandy Land Use Development Code. The
                                  amendments added new regulations regarding mobile food businesses,
                                  which included adding new definitions.
       CODE-09-17-5306            Code amendments to Title 15A, Chapter 11, Mobile Food Businesses, of
                                  the Sandy Land Use Development Code to align with new State Code
                                  that was adopted under Senate Bill 250 in 2017. These amendments
                                  also included several formatting changes.

   REQUEST
   The Community Development Department is proposing to amend Title 21, Chapter 11, Special Use
   Standards, Section 19, Mobile Food and Street Vendor Businesses, and Title 21, Chapter 37,
   Definitions, of the Sandy Municipal Code. The purpose of the code amendment is to implement new
   state legislation relating to food trucks, also known in Sandy City as mobile food businesses. Staff
   proposes several changes to the code to ensure consistency with current State Code.

   BACKGROUND
   During the 2022 Utah Legislative Session, House Bill 146 was passed, which made several
   amendments related to food truck business and licensing requirements. House Bill 146 modifies a
   municipality’s and a county’s regulation and business licensing authority over food truck businesses,
   as follows:



10000 Centennial P arkway   | S a n d y, U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   | p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   | f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   | s a n d y . u t a h . g ov
Amendments to Mobile Food and Street Vendor Businesses – CA08112022-0006381 Page - 2 -

   •   A business license and fee are not required if the food truck owner has a current and valid
       business license from another political subdivision in the State.
   •   The business owner is not required to show compliance with land use regulations at the time
       of a business license application.
   •   A business owner is not required to disclose financial information, inventory amounts or
       proprietary business information as part of obtaining or maintaining a business license.
   •   The size of a food truck may not be restricted.
   •   Ice cream trucks and food carts is added to the definition of a “food truck.”

ANALYSIS
Mobile food businesses continue to be popular in the country and the state. In 2015, the City
conducted a comprehensive update to the mobile food business regulations. In 2017, the State
Legislature adopted Senate Bill 250, which caused the City to update the mobile food business
regulations to align with the state legislation. During the 2022 Utah Legislative session, House
Bill 146 was passed, which again made amendments to the State Code related to food truck
business and licensing requirements.

Upon reviewing House Bill 146, staff proposes changes to the Sandy Land Development Code to
align with the new State Code, as well as housekeeping changes for consistency and clarification.
By bringing the city’s codes in line with recent state code amendments, existing regulations will
be reduced, and the effect will make it easier for mobile food businesses to operate in Sandy City.
The following is a summary of the proposed changes to the text of Title 21 related to mobile food
business regulations:
   1. The business license requirement is amended to allow mobile food business owners to
      submit a copy of a current business license in good standing from another political
      subdivision in the State, in lieu of a Sandy business license.
   2. The design standards for mobile food carts removes the restriction on the size of a cart
      that is allowed.
   3. The reference to auditing sales records is removed because the Sate Code restricts the
      ability of the City to require disclosure of financial information.
   4. The requirement to display a license, inspection and registration is amended by adding a
      health department food truck permit to the list of requirements, consistent with
      requirements of State Code.
   5. A “Mobile Food Cart” is defined and added to the definitions section of the code.
   6. The definition of a “Mobile Food Business” is amended to include mobile food carts,
      consistent with the State Code definition for a food truck; and the existing exclusion for
      ice cream trucks is clarified.
   7. The section that allows the Community Development Director to allow mobile food
      businesses in parks and open space zones is amended by adding consultation with the
      Parks and Recreation Director prior to granting approval.
   8. Various code amendments are included for housekeeping purposes, to provide
      consistency and clarification where appropriate.
A full detail of all proposed amendments to the text of the Land Development Code is shown in
Exhibit “A” (redlined version) and Exhibit “B” (final clean version).
Amendments to Mobile Food and Street Vendor Businesses – CA08112022-0006381 Page - 3 -

NON-CONFORMING USES
This Code Amendment would not create any non-conforming situations.

LAND DEVELOPMENT CODE PURPOSE COMPLIANCE
The Sandy City Land Development Code in 21-1-3 lists the criteria explaining the intent and purpose
of the Ordinance. The purpose is:

       21-1-3 Purpose
       This Code is adopted to implement Sandy City’s General Plan and to promote public
       health, safety, convenience, aesthetics, welfare; efficient use of land; sustainable land use
       and building practices; transportation options and accessibility; crime prevention; timely
       citizen involvement in land use decision making; and efficiency in development review and
       land use administration. Specifically, this Code is established to promote the following
       purposes:
       1. General
          a. To facilitate the orderly growth and development of Sandy City.
          b. To facilitate adequate provision for transportation, water, sewage, schools, parks, and
             other public requirements.
          c. To stabilize property values.
          d. To enhance the economic well-being of Sandy City and its inhabitants.
       2. Implementation of General Plan
          To coordinate and ensure the implementation of the City’s General Plan through effective
          execution of development review requirements, adequate facility and services review and other
          goals, policies, or programs contained in the General Plan.
       3. Comprehensive, Consistent and Equitable Regulations
          To establish a system of fair, comprehensive, consistent and equitable regulations, standards
          and procedures for review and approval of all proposed land development within the City.
       4. Efficiently and Effectively Managed Procedures
          a. To promote fair procedures that are efficient and effective in terms of time and expense.
          b. To be effective and responsive in terms of the allocation of authority and delegation of
              powers and duties among ministerial, appointed, and elected officials.
          c. To foster a positive customer service attitude and to respect the rights of all applicants and
              affected citizens.
The proposed code amendment is consistent with the purpose of the Land Development Code
because the proposal promotes the public health, safety and welfare; ensures consistency and
equitable standards; establishes efficiency in development review and land use administration; and
is consistent with the Sandy City General Plan.

GENERAL PLAN COMPLIANCE
The Sandy City General Plan encourages appropriate development standards for all uses and zoning
categories within the city. The proposed code amendment furthers that goal and objective by
establishing appropriate land development standards for all uses and zoning categories within Sandy
City, consistent with current State Code.

STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission forward a positive recommendation to the City
Council to amend Title 21, Chapter 11, Special Use Standards, Section 19, Mobile Food and Street
Vendor Businesses, and Chapter 37, Definitions, Section 14, “Mobile Food Business” of the Sandy
Municipal Code, as shown in Exhibit “A”, based on the following findings:
Amendments to Mobile Food and Street Vendor Businesses – CA08112022-0006381 Page - 4 -

1.      The proposal implements new state legislation relating to food trucks and mobile food
        businesses to ensure consistency with current State Code.
2.      The City Council may amend land use ordinances consistent with the purposes of the Sandy
        Land Development Code, the Sandy City General Plan, and the Utah Code, Municipal Land Use,
        Development, and Management Act per Title 21 Chapter 5 of the Sandy Municipal Code.
3.      The proposal is reviewed by the Planning Commission and City Council in accordance with
        the requirements of Title 21 Chapter 5 of the Sandy Municipal Code.
4.      The proposal complies with the purpose of the Land Development Code under Section 21-1-
        03 by ensuring efficiency in development review and land use administration.
5.      The proposal complies with the Goals and Policies of the General Plan by establishing
        appropriate development standards for all uses and zoning categories within Sandy City.

Planner:




Melissa Anderson
Zoning Administrator

File Name: \\FSUSERS\CH-USERS\USERS\PLN\STAFFRPT\2022\CA08112022-0006381 FOOD TRUCK CODE AMENDMENTS\STAFF
REPORT\STAFF REPORT-FOOD TRUCKS.FINAL.DOCX
