            S ANDY C I T Y C O M M U N I T Y D E V E L O P M E N T
                                                                                    JAMES SORENSEN COMMUNITY
                                                                                      DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR

                                                                                          MONICA ZOLTANSKI
                                                                                               MAYOR

                                                                                         CLIFFORD STRACHAN
                                                                                    CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER




                              MEMORANDUM
                                         June 2, 2022


 To:          Planning Commission
 From:        Community Development Department
 Subject:     Parkland Subdivision (Preliminary Review)                SUB11152021-006208
              565 West Parkland Drive                                              Zone: ID
              [Community #1 – Northwest Exposure]                       Approx. 21.30 Acres



HEARING NOTICE: This item has been noticed to property owners within 500 feet of the
             subject area.



                               PROPERTY CASE HISTORY
   Case Number                                     Case Summary
    CUP#80-21          Planning Commission provided approval for a conditional use permit for
                       the Western Star Club for use as a private club
     SPR#81-22         Preliminary site plan approval for South Ridge Industrial Park granted by
                       the Planning Commission.
     SPR#01-36         Preliminary site plan approval for Sandy Suburban Improvement District
                       granted by the Planning Commission.
  SPR#07-11-1877       Preliminary site plan approval for King Properties Parking Lot granted
                       by the Planning Commission.

DESCRIPTION OF REQUEST

The applicant, Niko Hardman, with Dominion Engineering, is representing the property owners
Sandy Suburban Improvement District and Sandy Land Owners LLC. He is requesting a
preliminary review for a proposed four-lot commercial subdivision, located at approximately 565
West Parkland Drive. The plat will create lots for anticipated future industrial uses, while
maintaining the current uses such as the Sandy Suburban Improvement District (Lot 1) and an
existing parking lot (Lot 3). The applicant is not requesting any special exceptions or overlay
zones with their request.
Parkland Subdivision – SUB11152021-006208                                                  Page 2




BACKGROUND & SITE CONDITIONS

The subject properties consist of approximately 21.30 acres and are located in the ID Zone
(Industrial Development District). To the east and northeast are various commercial businesses
located in the CR-PUD Zone (Regional Commercial – Planned Unit Development District). To
the north of proposed Lots 1 and 2 is the Sandy City Public Works building. To the west is an
approximately 25.5-acre undeveloped parcel in Salt Lake County owned by the Fur Breeders
Agricultural Cooperative. Finally, to the south is a carpet store in the RC Zone (Regional
Commercial District).

NOTICE

Notices were mailed to property owners within a 500-foot radius of the subject property as per
Sandy City Land Development Code requirements, to notify them of the Planning Commission
meeting. The Community Development Director determined that no neighborhood meeting was
required as the subject property is located within a district of commercial uses.

ANALYSIS

As part of this subdivision, Parkland Drive is being extended. It will eventually connect to 700
West, but the north to south extension is all that is being required for the development at this
time. The reason for that is that the north to south extension will provide the public street
frontage for Lot 2, making the eastern boundary of Lot 2 the front property line. The road will be
constructed with an elbow on the south cul-de-sac which will provide a stub to the west. When
Lot 4 develops, the remainder of the right-of-way will need to be dedicated and constructed to
connect to 700 West. That final extension will provide the public street frontage for Lot 4.

The location of the southern elbow was deliberately selected because when the road eventually
extends all the way westward to 700 West, it will make Lot 2 a corner lot, which means that
what would be a side setback today (the south property line of Lot 2) would become a front yard
instead, which has more landscaping because required front yard setbacks are of greater depth
than required side yard setbacks.

City staff and departments have reviewed and recommend preliminary subdivision review is
complete, subject to their normal requirements and specifications. The subdivision meets all
underlying zoning requirements.

STAFF CONCERNS

Staff has no concerns with the proposed subdivision.

STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Parkland Subdivision – SUB11152021-006208                                                  Page 3


Staff recommends that the Planning Commission determine that preliminary review is complete
for the Parkland Subdivision based on the following findings and subject to the following
conditions:

Findings:
   1. That the various City departments and divisions have preliminarily approved the
      proposed subdivision plat.

   2. That the proposed subdivision will be finalized with City staff, through recording with
      the County Recorder.


Conditions:
   1. That the applicant complies with each department’s comments and redlines
      throughout the final review process and that all issues be resolved before the
      subdivision can be recorded.

   2. That all City provisions, codes and ordinances are adhered to during the review
      process of this project.

   3. That all commercial lots comply with all requirements of the ID Zone.

   4. That all necessary dedication of public right-of-way be properly dedicated
      through this subdivision plat for City streets, parkstrips, and sidewalks.

   5. That when Lot 4 is further developed or improved, that the owner be required to
      dedicate and extend Parkland Drive to 700 West as a public right-of-way through
      an amended plat. The exact location of said road extension shall be determined at
      that future time.

   6. That the curb and gutter be installed and extended around the south side of the southern
      cul-de-sac elbow and terminate with a formal driveway approach, which is to be installed
      at the beginning of the private driveway that leads to the south parking lot of a newly-
      proposed flex space building on Lot 4 of the subdivision.

   7. That the sidewalk along the east side of the southern elbow be installed to just north of
      the beginning of the cul-de-sac radius.

   8. That the developer dedicate, and show on the plat, a road construction easement in favor
      of Sandy City, or its assignees, behind the future sidewalk along the east and south
      portions of the elbow of the cul-de-sac within the required 15-foot front yard landscape
      area to allow for various potential scenarios to extend the Parkland Drive through the
      proposed Lot 4, as the exact location of that public road extension is to be determined.
    Parkland Subdivision – SUB11152021-006208                                                          Page 4



___________________________
Craig Evans
Planner


File Name: S:\Users\PLN\STAFFRPT\2021\SUB11152021-006208 Parkland Subdivision\Planning Commission\Staff Report –
Parkland – DRAFT.docx
