              S ANDY C I T Y C O M M U N I T Y D E V E L O P M E N T
                                                                               JAMES SORENSEN
                                                                       COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR

                                                                              MONICA ZOLTANSKI
   `                                                                               MAYOR

                                                                                 SHANE PACE
                                                                         CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER




                              MEMORANDUM
                                      August 11, 2022


 To:      Board of Adjustment
 From:    Community Development Department
 Subject: Rozenfeld Variance Request to Amend Condition #6             BOA08012022-006373
          3802 East Catamount Ridge Way                                          4.45 Acres
          [Community #30 - Granite]                                        R-1-15, SAO Zone


HEARING NOTICE: This item has been noticed to property owners within 500 feet of the subject
                 area and on the City and Utah Public Notice websites.

                                  PROPERTY CASE HISTORY
          History                                        Summary
 Little Cottonwood Lane     Little Cottonwood Lane Part A Annexation effective date
 Part A Annexation          4/22/2015.
                            The Little Cottonwood View Estates Subdivision was recorded at
                            the Salt Lake County Recorder’s Office on 12/03/1996. The
 Little Cottonwood View
                            subject property is Lot 8 of the Subdivision. It was reviewed and
 Estates Subdivision
                            approved under the County’s FCOZ ordinance (similar to SAO
                            zone).
                            On February 10, 2022, the Board of Adjustment granted a variance
                            to Section 21-15-04(a)(1)(a) and 21-15-4(a)(2)(a) of the Sandy
 BOA01172022-006252         City Land Development Code to construct a new home on a hillside
                            slope in excess of thirty percent (30%) grade, on a lot within the
                            Sensitive Area Overlay Zone.

REQUEST & BACKGROUND
Yuri Rozenfeld (“Applicant”), filed a request with the Sandy City Board of Adjustment to amend
Condition of Approval #6 from a previously approved Variance. The property is located at 3802
East Catamount Ridge Way (see the Vicinity Map, Attachment A).

The applicant received a variance with conditions of approval from the Board of Adjustment
earlier this year, under case file BOA01172022-006252. On February 10, 2022, the Board
granted a variance to Sections 21-15-04(a)(1)(a) and 21-15-4(a)(2)(a) of the Sandy City Land
Development Code for the purpose of constructing a new home on a hillside slope in excess of
Rozenfeld – Variance Amendment Request – BOA08012022-006373                                Page - 2


thirty percent (30%) grade, on a lot within the Sensitive Area Overlay Zone. The previous agenda
packet from February 10, 2022, with staff analysis, findings, conditions of approval and all
substantiating material are included with this report (see Attachment E). The minutes from that
Board of Adjustment meeting on February 10, 2022, were submitted with the applicant’s letter
of request (see Attachment D).

The current request is to amend one of the conditions from that previous variance. Specifically,
the applicant requests to amend Variance Condition of Approval #6, as follows:
    “That the area behind the home and driveway that is to be disturbed to construct the home
    be limited to an average of twenty feet (20’) twenty-six feet (26’). That a limit of disturbance
    be placed at the existing 5420’ 5430’ elevation contour in order to reduce the impact to the
    hillside and reduce the amount of disturbance to the natural vegetation.”

REQUEST ANALYSIS
Staff illustrated the potential impacts of the proposed conditions during the Board of Adjustment
meeting staff presentation. That illustration is shown below (left):

                                                   As the applicant engineered the site to address
                                                   the required changes, they discovered that they
                                                   couldn’t do so without requesting additional
                                                   changes to the conditions of approval. The
                                                   applicant requests an amendment to Variance
                                                   Condition of Approval #6 because it is
                                                   necessary to address issues that have been
                                                   created by site design recommendations and by
                                                   implementation of Condition of Approval #9.
                                                   The proposed site changes are illustrated
                                                   below (right):



Specifically, the necessary site design changes
are caused by:
1) A recommendation to rotate the home to align
with the slope contours of the site; and
2) Implementation of Condition of Approval #9,
which requires a 10-foot setback from the public
utility easement.

These requirements result in an increase to the
disturbed area behind the home by six feet (from
20’ to 26’), and a ten foot (10’) increase to the maximum contour elevation for the overall limit
of disturbance on the site (from 5420’ to 5430’). However, the applicant states that these site
design changes have reduced the volume of ground that would need to be removed from the site.
The applicant’s narrative provides additional detail to their proposal under Attachment D.

Changes to the site design are also illustrated by the revised Grading Plan (see Sheet C300,
Attachment B), and the original Grading Plan (see Sheet C300, Attachment C). As proposed, the
Rozenfeld – Variance Amendment Request – BOA08012022-006373                                Page - 3


sight design changes and amendments to Condition #6 are the minimum necessary to address
the requirements of the Variance that was approved in February of 2022.

STAFF FINDINGS
The applicant requests the following amendment to Condition of Approval #6 of the Variance
that was approved under case file BOA01172022-006252:
    “That the area behind the home and driveway that is to be disturbed to construct the home
    be limited to an average of twenty feet (20’) twenty-six feet (26’). That a limit of disturbance
    be placed at the existing 5420’ 5430’ elevation contour in order to reduce the impact to the
    hillside and reduce the amount of disturbance to the natural vegetation.”

The proposal to amend Condition #6 is the minimum necessary to address site design issues
caused by: 1) a recommendation to rotate the home to align with the slope contours of the site,
and 2) implementation of Conditions of Approval #9, which requires a 10-foot setback from the
public utility easement. Based on these facts, the applicant’s submittal information (Attachment
D), and the staff report packet from February 10, 2022 (Attachment E), findings for the variance
review criteria are provided below.

1.     Literal enforcement of the zoning ordinance would cause an unreasonable
       hardship for the applicant that is not necessary to carry out the general purpose of
       the zoning ordinance.

       Finding: Literal enforcement of zoning ordinance would not allow any home to be built
       on this platted subdivision lot, depriving the lot of nearly all economic value, as nothing
       else could be built there. The proposed amendment to Condition #6 addresses site design
       issues that will allow construction of the new home, as was intended by the original
       variance approval.

2.     There are special circumstances attached to the property that do not generally
       apply to other properties in the same district.

       Finding: The property is severely limited by a difficult and small building envelope,
       primarily because of the steep slope. Other homes in this vicinity were built before the
       current zoning ordinance, thus enjoying the benefits of construction and use that now
       requires a variance. The proposed amendment to Condition #6 does not change this fact.

3.     Granting the variance is essential to the enjoyment of a substantial property right
       possessed by other property in the same district.

       Finding: This is a platted lot and having and maintaining a home on the property is an
       essential property right. The proposed amendment to Condition #6 does not change this
       fact.

4.     The variance will not substantially affect the general plan and will not be contrary
       to the public interest.

       Finding: The general plan provides for homes to be built in this zone in spite of the steep
       hillsides, provided certain conditions are met. The proposed amendment to Condition #6
       does not change this fact. All other conditions of approval shall remain the same to
Rozenfeld – Variance Amendment Request – BOA08012022-006373                                Page - 4


       mitigate negative impacts. Further, the applicant states that the required site design
       changes significantly reduced the impact on the lot by reducing the volume of ground that
       would need to be removed.

5.     The spirit of the zoning ordinance is observed and substantial justice done.

       Finding: If a variance is not granted, no construction would be allowed on the legally
       platted parcel, which would be a serious injustice. Construction of the proposed
       residence will not create a substantial negative impact to the protected hillside so long as
       the proposal is limited to the amendment to Condition #6, and all other conditions of
       approval remain as originally approved.

       The applicant’s proposal is the minimum necessary to address site design issues that will
       allow construction of the new home. The required site design changes significantly
       reduced the impact on the lot by reducing the volume of ground that would need to be
       removed. Further, the hillside can be properly restored and the presence of a new home
       on a platted lot would create little negative impact to other property owners.

6.     Consistent with Utah Supreme Court decision of Chambers v. Smithfield City 714 P.2d
       1133 (Utah Supreme Court, 1986), the hardship complained is not economic in nature.
       Rather, the hardship suffered here – not being able to construct on the lot – is “tied to the
       special circumstances” grounded in the lot, not on economic decisions or risk taking by
       the owner. The proposed amendment to Condition #6 does not change this fact; the
       proposal is the minimum necessary to address site design issues that will allow
       construction of the new home.

7.     And finally, the hardship addressed in this variance appeal is not “self-imposed,”
       consistent with Chambers. In Chambers, the owner purchased a lot of size clearly beyond
       the zoning requirements. Therefore, their economic loss – when it was determined that
       they cannot build – was suffered because of a decision that was informed by the fact that
       that construction on the lot was not permitted. The proposed amendment to Condition
       #6 does not change this fact; the proposal is the minimum necessary to address site
       design issues that will allow construction of the new home.

Conclusion:
Based on the findings stated above, staff concludes the proposal to amend Condition #6 of the
Variance that was approved under case file BOA01172022-006252 does not create any
unmitigated impacts to the property if all other conditions are met; and the request does not
result in the violation of any other City ordinances. Therefore, all applicable criteria for an
amendment to Condition #6 of the Variance have been met.

STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends the Board of Adjustment approve the request to amend Condition #6 of the
Variance that was approved under case file BOA01172022-006252 for the property located at
3802 East Catamount Ridge Way. All other conditions of approval would remain as originally
approved to mitigate the negative impacts of said variance. If approved, the amended conditions
of approval shall be stated as follows:

Conditions of Approval:
Rozenfeld – Variance Amendment Request – BOA08012022-006373                               Page - 5


   1. All proposed retaining walls be designed to follow the City Engineer’s recommendations,
      including rock fall mitigation measures.

   2. If the development of the dwelling as proposed creates cuts and fills over 10 feet in height,
      that they seek a special exception from the Planning Commission prior to issuance of a
      building permit.

   3. That the Planning Commission review a detailed grading plan of the lot prior to issuance
      of a building permit which shows the proposed grading, cuts, fills, or terracing on the
      continuous hillside of 30% or greater slope.

   4. That a vegetation plan, in accordance with Development Code Section 21-15-4(b)(3) be
      reviewed and approved by staff prior to issuance of a building permit to ensure the
      disturbed areas of the lot are properly restored, and drainage and slope stability issues
      are mitigated.

   5. That the proposed home be allowed to be constructed to a footprint no larger than 2,455
      square feet (including the garage area) in order to reduce the impact to the hillside and
      reduce the amount of disturbance to the natural vegetation.

   6. That the area behind the home and driveway that is to be disturbed to construct the home
      be limited to an average of twenty feet (20’) twenty-six feet (26’). That a limit of
      disturbance be placed at the existing 5420’ 5430’ elevation contour in order to reduce
      the impact to the hillside and reduce the amount of disturbance to the natural vegetation.

   7. That the driveway width be limited to eighteen-foot (18’) maximum and a depth of at
      least twenty feet (20’) before tapering to a minimum twelve-foot (12’) wide drive
      approach, fourteen-foot (14’) maximum, in order to reduce the impact to the hillside and
      reduce the amount of disturbance to the natural vegetation.

   8. That all reports, plans, studies, and reports required by the City Engineer and Section
      21-15, Sensitive Area Overlay be completed prior to issuance of a building permit and
      approval of an engineered site plan.

   9. That the buildable area be limited to be no closer than ten feet (10’) within an existing
      water line or within a public utility easement.

   10. That a conservation easement or restrictive covenant be recorded that restricts any
       further expansion of the approved building envelope or the construction of any
       further structures or further disturbance upon the property.


Planner:




Melissa Anderson
Zoning Administrator
Rozenfeld – Variance Amendment Request – BOA08012022-006373                                     Page - 6



Notice to Applicants: Be prepared to discuss the criteria for a variance as mentioned above in
your presentation to the Board of Adjustment. Generally, the questionnaire you completed as
part of the variance application process requests the information which the Board needs to
consider. However, you may be aware of additional information that could be useful to the Board
of Adjustment, which you may wish to present orally or in writing at the public hearing.

NOTE: Any appeal of the decision of the Board of Adjustment must be made within thirty [30] days
      to the appropriate District Court of the State of Utah. The proper forms and procedure for
      filing such an appeal may be obtained from the District Court or the attorney of your choice.
      Sandy City DOES NOT have this information and cannot assist you in any way with the
      filing of any appeal of a Board of Adjustment decision. Copies of the case file, including all
      evidence submitted will be made available to interested parties. You may make a copy of
      the audio tape of the proceedings at our offices located at 10000 Centennial Parkway, suite
      210, Sandy, Utah.

File Name: S:\USERS\PLN\STAFFRPT\2022\BOA08012022-006373 REVISED ROZENFELD VARIANCE\STAFF REPORT\ROZENFELD
VARIANCE AMEND COND. STAFF REPORT.DRAFT.DOCX
