                                         LEGAL MEMORANDUM

TO:              The Sandy City Council
FROM:            Zach Robinson
DATE:            September 8, 2023
RE:              Short-Term Rentals



BACKGROUND

         In Sandy City, the burgeoning short-term rental market has precipitated a host of neighborhood
challenges. Noise complaints have surged, with late-night parties and disruptive guests fracturing the
tranquility of residential areas. Additional vehicles brought by short-term renters have exacerbated already
scarce parking, leading to disputes and congestion. Compounding these problems are inconsistent trash
disposal practices by transient renters, causing sanitation concerns that may even lead to rodent or insect
infestations. In addition to frustrating residents, the transient nature of renters is creating a perception that
could deter potential homebuyers, thereby possibly affecting property values. Utah State law imposes a
burden on municipal governments to address this issue. Adding to these problems is an unclear process for
governing, monitoring, and regulating short-term rentals. Together, these issues present a complex
challenge for Sandy City’s residents and government.

APPLICABLE LAW

         Utah law defines a “short-term rental” as a residential unit or any portion of a residential unit that
the owner of record or the lessee of the residential unit offers for occupancy for fewer than thirty (30)
consecutive days.1 Under the auspice of the First Amendment, state law bars a legislative body from
enacting or enforcing an ordinance that prohibits an individual from listing or offering a short-term rental
on a short-term rental website or using an ordinance that prohibits the act of listing a short-term rental to
fine, charge, prosecute, or otherwise punish an individual solely for the act of listing or offering a short-
term rental on a short-term rental website.2 Essentially, this means Cities cannot use an ordinance to stop
a person from listing a short-term rental online or to fine, charge, or prosecute a person just for listing a
short-term rental. However, state law does allow a City to take alternative actions to regulate, monitor, and
enforce short-term rentals.

         Sandy City ordinances prohibit short-term rentals in the City unless a person obtains a short-term
rental special use permit and a short-term rental business license.3 Each short-term rental unit needs its
own short-term rental business license, and only one license may be issued per person (meaning a person
may only operate one short-term rental within the City, not multiple rentals).4 Because a person is required
to obtain both a special use permit and a rental business license for a short-term rental, the rental property
is subject to intermittent inspections as deemed necessary by the Business License Official.5 A person to
whom a special use permit and a rental business license have been issued may not incur more than three (3)
allowed violations or the license and permit may be denied, revoked, or suspended. 6


1
  Utah Code Ann. § 10-8-85.4(1)(c).
2
  Id. at §10-8085.4(2).
3
  Sandy City Code § 15-11-2.
4
  Id. at § 15-11-4.
5
  Id. at § 15-11-5.
6
  Id. at § 15-11-4, § 15-11-6.

                                                       1
OPTIONS

Land Use Regulations/Zoning Districts

          There are several options available to Sandy to further restrict short-term rentals within the City to
better regulate, monitor, and control short-term rentals and their detrimental side effects. First, the City
may restrict where a short-term rental is permitted within the City by using land use regulations and zoning
district ordinances. Currently, short-term rentals are allowed within all parts of the City if the applicant has
obtained the proper permit and license. The City could further limit short-term rentals by passing an
ordinance outright prohibiting short-term rentals in certain zoning districts or allowing short-term rentals
only in specifically designated zoning districts. The City may also limit the size of rental properties
according to zoning designation. Furthermore, the City may completely ban short-term rentals that are not
also owner-occupied (aka: unhosted properties). The City may alternately choose to allow short-term
rentals in certain zones as long as the applicant resides within city limits or as long as the applicant can
respond to emergencies at the property within a certain amount of time. Additionally, the City may include
in its ordinance a provision allowing the City to review an applicant’s short-term rental agreement to verify
compliance with the City’s short-term rental ordinance. Any of the above-described options will reduce
the number of short-term rentals available within the City, as well as provide the City greater access to the
property and the rental agreements to ensure compliance.

Short-Term Rental Business License

         Sandy currently requires a short-term rental applicant to acquire both a special use permit and a
short-term rental business license. Additionally, an applicant could be required to obtain a short-term rental
business license from Salt Lake County.7 The City ordinances does not require an applicant to obtain a
license from the County. The City could amend its short-term rental ordinance to include express language
stating that a County license is required before the City will issue any permit or license. Additionally, the
City may amend its ordinance to require a certain minimum number of inspections of a rental property per
year, rather than leaving inspections up to the discretion of the Business License Official.

Third-Party Software Tracking

         Although state law prohibits a City from enforcing a short-term rental ordinance based solely on
the fact that a person has listed a short-term rental on a rental website, the City can use that information to
further investigate short-term rental properties. One way to do this is to use third-party software such as
GovOS Short-Term Rental Solution or Granicus to track short-term rentals within the City. The City can
then use that information to verify permit and license requirements, regulate inspections, and verify
compliance. The use of third-party software to help track short-term rentals may be a good option if the
City has limited manpower to keep track of short-term properties.

ENFORCEMENT CHALLENGES

        State law has prohibited the most direct, efficient way to track and monitor short-term rentals for
compliance by not allowing cities to utilize information a person lists online about short-term rentals. There
are other, less direct methods to regulate and monitor short-term rentals. However, gathering compelling
evidence to enforce those other options is extremely time-consuming and requires a lot of manpower.
Limited financial and human resources and the complex legal framework make enforcement an uphill


7
    SALT LAKE COUNTY CODE § 5.19.

                                                       2
battle. The following are several options available to regulate and enforce short-term rentals, and each
include their own unique enforcement challenges.

Criminal Charges

         The first option available to regulate and enforce short-term rentals is to prosecute violations
criminally. Although criminal charges are a more direct and likely the most effective method to minimize
the detrimental effects of short-term rentals, it is also the most challenging method. Criminal prosecution
requires a much higher standard of evidence than civil or administrative enforcement. Additionally,
criminal charges require more legal expertise and attorneys who know how to navigate a criminal system
to obtain successful convictions on what essentially amounts to non-criminal offenses. Furthermore, the
criminal option may also stretch already-limited City resources (e.g., increased court overhead costs due to
increased weighted caseload, increased costs associated with public defense of short-term rental cases,
when applicable, increased court and prosecution personnel). Moreover, an additional, incidental side-
effect of criminal prosecution may be that utilizing law enforcement resources to enforce short-term rental
issues may divert those resources from other, more vital law enforcement activities. The issue of whether
to resort to criminal prosecution for this type of behavior, especially when alternative remedial options
exist, presents a complex policy question.

Civil Complaint in District Court

         The second option available to regulate and enforce short-term rentals is to file a civil complaint in
District Court. Civil proceedings are less intense than criminal proceedings and may require a lower
standard of evidence to obtain a favorable verdict. However, the civil proceedings option also has its
drawbacks. Civil proceedings tend to take much more time than criminal cases, often stretching across
years. Additionally, civil proceedings often involve more expensive legal processes and more legal
personnel than required in criminal proceedings.

Administrative Process with an Administrative Law Judge/Hearing Officers

        The third option available to regulate and enforce short-term rentals is to submit short-term rental
complaints and violations to an Administrative Law Judge (“ALJ”) for review and correction.8 An
administrative process would likely be an effective solution that maximizes the use of municipal resources
without added expense, expertise, or time. However, an established administrative review process can
become complex and requires the creation and maintenance of a dedicated administrative body. An
administrative solution would require the City to hire an ALJ, establish a clear process for violations
including providing appropriate notice to an applicant in violation, establishing which City personnel will
be responsible for submitting violations to the ALJ, scheduling hearings, etc.

RECOMMENDATIONS

Number 1: Review and Update Municipal Code

         Currently, after internal discussions in the City’s Administration, it has been decided that the most
effective approach for enforcing short-term rental regulations in Sandy is to file criminal charges for
violations in the City’s Justice Court. If the City decides to pursue any enforcement through a Civil process,
there are issues to resolve.



8
    In the Sandy City Code an ALJ is referred to as an administrative hearing officer.
                                                       3
         The first uncertainty in enforcing short-term rental violations directly through civil action is that
the City likely would not have a defined cause of action for the suit. It is also highly unlikely that a
municipality is endowed with the authority to create a new cause of action. Additionally, it may be difficult
for the City to establish standing to bring a civil suit as the first step in enforcement. The Sandy City Code
addresses these issues by requiring the City to seek administrative remedies before seeking a civil action
because administrative proceedings would provide the City with an adequate cause of action in a civil suit
if necessary. The Sandy City Code has a thorough, clear administrative process to follow; however, the
subsequent civil action is not so clearly defined.

         Second, the code may present uncertainty because it addresses short-term rentals through two
different processes. Short-term rentals are largely covered via business license regulations, violations of
which may be heard by the Community Development Director as the designated hearing officer for such
things. Additionally, having the Community Development Director as the hearing officer may raise some
significant conflicts of interest. However, business license violations are also governed by administrative
code enforcement, which requires hearings before an administrative law judge. These two conflicting
processes muddy the waters on which process the City should follow for short-term rental violations,
increasing the likelihood of inconsistent treatment for violators. Furthermore, the code mandates that the
City hire an administrative law judge to hear administrative code cases, including business license
violations.

         It is therefore recommended that the City update its code to clearly define which process should be
used to address business license violations, under which short-term rental violations would fall. It is
recommended that the City use the mandated administrative law judge process, rather than use the
Community Development Director as a hearing officer. This would provide consistency and fair treatment
to business license violators. Additionally, the administrative law judge process ends with an order which,
if violated, would give the City standing and a cause of action to file a suit in civil court.

        The City may also revise its code language to specifically address applicants (whether owners,
operators, or lessees) of short-term rentals and clarify their responsibilities and set clear penalties for non-
compliance. Such revisions to the code would provide a legal framework that can more effectively address
the unique challenges presented by short-term rentals, thereby ensuring that they operate within the bounds
of community standards. For example, the City can amend the code to specify that the ordinance applies
to applicants, whether they are owners or lessees of a rental property. The City may review the option of
amending the code to expressly state that a County license is also required in addition to the City’s permit
and license requirements. The code may also be amended to include more specific penalties outside of
denial, revocation, and suspension, as well as the specific person within the City that would enforce
violations (e.g., Planning Commission, City Council, Business License Official…). The code may also be
amended to reduce the number of allowable violations before a license is revoked or suspended.

Number 2: Revisit the Hiring of an Administrative Hearing Officer or Amend the Code

        Given that the criminal process requires a higher standard of evidence and places a strain on existing
legal and law enforcement resources, and that civil actions may consume considerable time and financial
resources, an administrative process may be strategically favorable. In fact, in 2018, the Council9 engaged
in a comprehensive and meticulous debate over matters concerning the issue of enforcement. After an
exhaustive deliberation that scrutinized various facets and implications, the Council arrived at a consensus
to implement a policy that is non-discretionary in nature. This policy sought to standardize administrative


9
  It is noteworthy that this legal framework for appointment was reviewed and approved by the Council
and Mayor on October 26, 2018, under Ordinance No. 18-32.
                                                       4
procedures of enforcement and review, thereby obviating subjective interpretation and ensuring a more
uniform application of the law.

        In accordance with Section 1-4-8 of the Sandy City Code, the process for appointing an
Administrative Hearing Officer has been clearly outlined and stipulates specific qualifications for the
appointee. Section 1-4-8(a)-(b) states:

          The Mayor, with the consent of the City Council, shall appoint an administrative hearing officer to
          preside at administrative hearings and issue administrative orders. A person appointed to serve as
          an administrative hearing officer shall either be law trained or have significant experience with the
          requirements and operation of administrative hearing processes. The person shall be free from any
          bias or conflict of interest that might affect impartiality of decisions.10

        This codification ensures that the administrative hearing officer possesses either legal training or
substantial experience in administrative hearing processes, thereby guaranteeing a level of expertise and
impartiality essential for the role. The adoption this policy reflects the Council’s commitment to upholding
equitable governance, while assiduously considering the complexities and nuances of the issues at hand.

        Despite the unambiguous, non-discretionary language articulated in the Code concerning the
appointment of an administrative hearing officer, the City has yet to retain an individual for this role.
Several factors contribute to this issue, ranging from pragmatic to philosophical. On the practical front, the
City faces challenges in identifying a candidate who meets the qualifications outlined in the Code.
Philosophical considerations also come into play, as there exists an ongoing debate concerning the role and
necessity of an administrative hearing officer within the municipal framework. Additionally, fiscal
constraints have contributed to the hesitation, raising questions about cost-effectiveness.

         There are two options for resolving the current impasse regarding the retention of an administrative
hearing officer. The first option is to revisit the issue of retaining a qualified individual for the role and to
allocate the necessary funding for the position. This would bring the City into compliance with its existing
legal framework and potentially enhance the efficacy of administrative processes. The alternative is to
consider amending the Code to reflect the practical challenges and philosophical reservations that have
precluded the hiring. Such an amendment could mitigate the risks associated with non-compliance and
provide the City with greater flexibility in administrative enforcement. Each option has its merits and
drawbacks, and a thorough analysis is warranted to determine the most prudent course of action.

Number 3: Enhance Collaboration with Short-Term Rental Platforms

         Enhancing collaboration with platforms such as Airbnb could facilitate the enforcement of City
regulations. By partnering directly with these platforms, Sandy City could work towards ensuring that all
listings comply with local laws and standards. This collaborative approach might include data sharing
agreements, regular consultations, and joint enforcement efforts. Such a partnership could significantly
improve oversight and foster a more responsible short-term rental market within the City. In the past, Sandy
has contracted with a vendor to provide this service, perhaps it is time to revisit this option.

Number 4: Public Education and Outreach

        Public education and outreach are essential components in creating a community-aware approach
to regulating short-term rentals. Launching community engagement programs that inform residents of the
existing regulations, their rights, and the process for reporting violations can empower the community to

10
     See Ord. No. 18-32, § 1(1-8), 10-26-2018, (Emphasis added).
                                                       5
actively participate in maintaining neighborhood standards. Through informational materials, and other
engagement tools, Sandy City can foster an informed and proactive citizenry that actively supports
responsible short-term rental practices

CONCLUSION

        In conclusion, something must be done about the growing problem of short-term rentals.
The current situation is not sustainable. There are various issues that cannot be ignored, including
legal challenges and community disruptions. We need to review and update our code, if needed,
and make sure the rules are enforced.




                                                  6
