                                          SA N DY C I T Y C O M M U N I T Y D E V E L O P M E N T
                                                                                                                                         JAMES SORENSEN
                                                                                                                                      COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
                                                                                                                                            DIRECTOR

                                                                                                                                           MONICA ZOLTANSKI
                                                                                                                                               MAYOR

                                                                                                                                           SHANE E. PACE
                                                                                                                                        CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE
                                                                                                                                               OFFICER


                               Staff Report Memorandum
                                                          July 20, 2023

 To:             City Council via Planning Commission
 From:           Community Development Department
 Subject:        Amendments to Title 21 of the Land Development Code,                                                           CA05252023-0006537
                 Chapter 19, Special Development (SD) Districts, Section 20,
                 SD (Carnation) -10600 S. 1000 E.


 Public Hearing Notice: This item has been noticed on public websites, sent to affected entities and
                                  property owners within 500 feet of the zoning district and posted in three public
                                  locations at least 10 days prior to the Public Hearing.


Request
 Adam Nash, representing several property owners that are part of
 the area zoned SD (Carnation), has applied to amend Title 21,
 Land Development Code, Chapter 19, Special Development (SD)
 Districts, Section 20, SD (Carnation)-10600 S. 1000 E. of the
 Sandy Municipal Code. The SD Carnation zone only affects
 approximately 2 acres of land located around 984 East 10600
 South (see map insert). The proposed code change would allow
 gasoline service stations in the SD Carnation zone, where they are
 currently prohibited. The applicant intends to develop a gas
 station with a convenience store in the future if the code
 amendment is approved. This proposal is included with this report
 as Exhibit “A” (redlined version) and Exhibit “B” (clean version).

Background
 In 2004, the SD Carnation Zone was established specifically for
 this site and is not used in any other location in the city. The
 purpose of the SD Carnation Zone is “to provide an area for
 convenience commercial retail services and professional and business
 offices with development standards compatible with those of
 contiguous properties” (Sec. 21-19-20). The properties are bordered
 to the north by single-family homes and churches (jurisdiction of
 White City); to the west and south by the Dimple Dell Recreation
 Center (OS Zone); and to the east is a school and a church (R-1-
 8 Zone).
   10000 Centennial P arkway       | S a n d y, U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   |   p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   |   f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8    |   sandy.utah. gov
Code Amendments to the SD (Carnation) Zone – CA05252023-0006537                                                                                      Page 2



                                                          Case History
       Case Number                                                                 Case Summary
        Ord. No. 04-25               Creation of the SD (Carnation) zone, and a rezone from CVC and Open Space
           CA-04-L                   (OS) to the SD (Carnation) zone, May 2004.
        Ord. No. 04-26
           R-04-04
         SPR-04-20                   Site Plan Review for the 106th South Retail Center, Phase 1, Big 5 Sports,
                                     September 2004.
       Ord. No. 19-34                Amendments to the SD (Carnation) zone to allow Pharmacies and Medical
      CODE-10-19-5752                Office as permitted uses in the zone and to reduce the code required
                                     landscaped front yard setbacks from 10 feet to 8 feet. Approved, December
                                     2019.

Public Notice
 The city issued notice of the public hearing for the proposed code amendments on public websites, mailed notice to affected
 entities and property owners within 500 feet of the zoning district, and posted in three public locations at least 10 days prior
 to the Planning Commission public hearing in accordance with the Land Development Code Sec. 21-36-1 and the Utah
 State Code § 10-9a-205.

 A neighborhood meeting was held on Tuesday, June 27, 2023, at 6 pm. In attendance was the applicant Adam Nash, his
 business partner Troy Johansen, and one participant. Participant Jackie Smith stated that she lived nearby, and she was
 concerned about the possibility of having another 24-hour business with gas station in the neighborhood and that it would
 increase traffic. An email was also received from Tom Burns, who was unable to attend the neighborhood meeting. Mr.
 Burns stated in an email that he is opposed to the proposal because there are already enough gas stations in the area and that
 it would only add to the noise and traffic at this location. His comments are included as Exhibit “E”.

Analysis
 As proposed by the applicant, the code change would allow gasoline
 service stations in the SD Carnation zone (see Section 21-19-20).
 The specific amendments to the Land Development Code are
 included as Exhibit “A” (red-lined version) and Exhibit “B” (clean
 version). The applicant’s narrative for the proposal is included as
 Exhibit “C.”

 Currently, the SD Carnation zone states that permitted and
 conditional uses shall follow the land use list for the CvC zone
 (Planned Center-Convenience Zoning District), as listed in Section
 21-8-2, with the exception of automotive uses; all automotive-
 related land uses were intentionally excluded from the zone by the
 City Council at the time this special district was established.

 In the CvC zone, automotive service stations and automotive self-service stations are allowed with a conditional use permit;
 however, all other automotive-related land uses are not permitted in the zone. Therefore, the proposed code change would
 effectively allow gasoline service stations with conditional use permit approval, but all other automotive-related uses (i.e.,
 auto sales and rentals, auto service and repair) would remain prohibited in the SD Carnation zone.

      10000 Centennial P arkway       | S a n d y, U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   |   p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   |   f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   |   sandy.utah. gov
Code Amendments to the SD (Carnation) Zone – CA05252023-0006537                                                                                      Page 3


 The White City Water Improvement District (WCWID) was notified that the applicant proposed to construct and operate
 a service station in the SD Carnation zone, which is just outside WCWID's service area. Mr. Paul Ashton, General
 Manager/General Counsel of the WCWID provided comments to Sandy City opposing a service station in this area due to
 its proximity to existing ground-water resources (Exhibit “D”). Mr. Ashton states: “In this situation, the potential consequence
 of leakage and contamination would be catastrophic to water wells within the area including, but not limited to those owned and
 run by WCWID, but also wells owned and run by Sandy City and the Jordan Valley Water Conservation District. In that regard,
 the underground aquifer from which those wells draw pristine drinking water would be severely damaged if petroleum products
 leak and contaminate the aquifer. The proposed gas station lies directly in groundwater source protection zone 4 of White City
 Water Improvement District's Well No. 3A. …. I have brought this matter up to the elected WCWID Board of Trustees and they
 have instructed us to petition Sandy City to not grant approval for construction of the proposed gas station.”

 The Sandy City Code helps protect all water sources, regardless of agency. The Sandy Public Utilities Department is charged
 with the responsibility of ensuring that those water sources are protected and has agreed with the WCWID letter. While the
 SD Carnation zone is not within the White City Water Service District, the affected properties are still within a Drinking
 Water Source Protection Overlay Zone (see Sec. 21-17). The map below shows the subject properties are located within
 Drinking Water Source Protection Overlay Zone #4, which is described in the code under Sec. 21-17-3, Extent and
 Designation of Recharge Areas and Protection Zones.




 The Land Use Matrix for Potential Contamination Sources (Sec. 21-17-6) states that “Gasoline Service Stations” proposed
 within Drinking Water Source Protection Overlay Zone #4 require Public Utilities Department approval. The Public
 Utilities Department has reviewed the proposal and they will not grant approval of a gasoline service station at this location
 due to the proximity to ground-water resources. Sandy City Public Utilities Department Assistant Director/Engineering
 Manager Richard Benham, P.E., states that this area is known to have sandy soils that would allow contaminants to travel
 to multiple wells in the area. The city has lost wells to contaminant sources, and it is vital that the City protect these
 important investments.

Non-Conforming Uses
 This code amendment would not create any non-conforming situations.


      10000 Centennial P arkway       | S a n d y, U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   |   p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   |   f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   |   sandy.utah. gov
Code Amendments to the SD (Carnation) Zone – CA05252023-0006537                                                                                      Page 4

Land Development Code Purpose Compliance
 The Sandy City Land Development Code in 21-1-3 lists the criteria explaining the intent and purpose of the Ordinance.
 The purpose is:
       21-1-3 Purpose
       This Code is adopted to implement Sandy City’s General Plan and to promote public health, safety, convenience,
       aesthetics, welfare; efficient use of land; sustainable land use and building practices; transportation options and
       accessibility; crime prevention; timely citizen involvement in land use decision making; and efficiency in development
       review and land use administration. Specifically, this Code is established to promote the following purposes:
       1. General
          a. To facilitate the orderly growth and development of Sandy City.
          b. To facilitate adequate provision for transportation, water, sewage, schools, parks, and other public
             requirements.
          c. To stabilize property values.
          d. To enhance the economic well-being of Sandy City and its inhabitants.
       2. Implementation of General Plan
          To coordinate and ensure the implementation of the City’s General Plan through effective execution of
          development review requirements, adequate facility and services review and other goals, policies, or programs
          contained in the General Plan.
       3. Comprehensive, Consistent and Equitable Regulations
          To establish a system of fair, comprehensive, consistent and equitable regulations, standards and procedures for
          review and approval of all proposed land development within the City.
       4. Efficiently and Effectively Managed Procedures
          a. To promote fair procedures that are efficient and effective in terms of time and expense.
          b. To be effective and responsive in terms of the allocation of authority and delegation of powers and duties
               among ministerial, appointed, and elected officials.
          c. To foster a positive customer service attitude and to respect the rights of all applicants and affected citizens.

 The proposed code amendment is inconsistent with the purpose of the Land Development Code because the proposal does
 not promote public health, safety, and welfare. Based on the findings stated previously in this report, the proposal to allow
 gasoline service stations in the SD Carnation zone creates the potential for ground-water contamination. Neither the
 WCWID nor the Sandy Public Utilities Department will grant approval for a gasoline service station in this area.

General Plan Compliance
 Water Source Protection Goals and Policies were adopted into the Sandy General Plan under Ordinance 98-21. These
 include a goal to adopt Drinking Water Source Protection Regulations, and policies to apply zoning that protect wells from
 potential contamination sources and that regulate new businesses from locating within certain zones. Based on these goals
 and policies, a Drinking Water Source Protection Overlay Zone (Sec. 21-17) was adopted into the Sandy Municipal Code,
 and through its implementation a gasoline service station is not an appropriate use within the SD Carnation zone.


Recommendation
 Staff recommends that the Planning Commission recommend to the City Council to deny the application to amend Section
 21-19-20 of the Sandy Municipal Code to allow gasoline service stations in the SD Carnation zone, based on the following
 findings:

      10000 Centennial P arkway       | S a n d y, U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   |   p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   |   f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   |   sandy.utah. gov
Code Amendments to the SD (Carnation) Zone – CA05252023-0006537                                                                                    Page 5

 Findings:
   1. The City Council may amend land use ordinances consistent with the purposes of the Sandy Land Development
       Code, the Sandy City General Plan, and the Utah Code, Municipal Land Use, Development, and Management Act
       per Title 21 Chapter 5 of the Sandy Municipal Code.
   2. The proposal is reviewed by the Planning Commission and City Council in accordance with the requirements of Title
      21 Chapter 5 of the Sandy Municipal Code.
   3. The proposal does not comply with the purpose of the Land Development Code under Section 21-1-03 because it
      would create the potential for ground-water contamination, and thus poses a threat the public health, safety, and
      welfare.
   4. The proposal does not comply with the Sandy City General Plan because it is contrary to the Water Source Protection
      Goals and Policies.

 Planner:




 Melissa Anderson
 Zoning Administrator

 Exhibits:
    A. Proposed code amendments (red-lined version)
    B. Proposed code amendments (clean version)
    C. Applicant’s Proposal and Narrative
    D. Letter from the White City Water Improvement District (dated 5/15/2023)
    E. Comment from Tom Burns (dated 6/29/2023)

 File Name: S:\USERS\PLN\STAFFRPT\2023\CA05252023-0006537 CODE AMEND FOR SD-CARNATION ZONE\STAFF REPORT\STAFF REPORT -SD
 CARNATION ZONE CODE AMEND.FINAL.DOCX




      10000 Centennial P arkway     | S a n d y, U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   |   p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   |   f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   |   sandy.utah. gov
                                                    Exhibit “A”


Sec. 21-19-20. SD (Carnation)-10600 S. 1000E.
(a)   Purpose. The SD(Carnation) Zone is established to provide an area for convenience commercial retail services
      and professional and business offices with development standards compatible with those of contiguous
      properties.
(b)   Uses Allowed.
      (1)   Permitted and Conditional Uses. Permitted or Conditional Uses shall follow the use list for the CvC
            Zone, as listed in Section 21-8-2, with the following exceptions:
            a.    All alcoholic beverage related land uses shall be not permitted within this district with the
                  exception of alcoholic beverage off-premises beer retailer licenses.
            b.    All automotive-related land uses, including repair, oil change, gasoline dispensing, rental and
                  other service activities, shall be not permitted within this district.
            cb.   All pharmacy (including ancillary compounding) and medical and health care office uses shall be
                  permitted within this district.
            dc.   Drive-up window (non-food) uses (limited to banks, ATMs, dry cleaners, pharmacy, etc.) shall be
                  permitted within this district.
(c)   Development Standards. The following standards shall apply specifically to development in the SD(Carnation)
      Zone. Where a specific standard is not mentioned, the development requirements of the CvC Zone District
      shall apply, in addition to general standards provided in Chapter 21-23. Where conflict may be found to exist,
      the provisions of this zone district shall prevail.
      (1)   Planning Commission Review. Review of all preliminary and final site plans in the SD(Carnation) Zone is
            required by the Planning Commission according to the standards outlined in Chapter 21-32. A Traffic
            Study shall be submitted before Planning Commission review, as may be required by the
            Transportation Engineer.
      (2)   Building Setbacks.
            a.    From All Streets. All buildings shall be set back at least 30 feet from the 10600 South Street right-
                  of-way line. All buildings shall be set back at least 15 feet from the 1000 East realignment right-
                  of-way line.
            b.    Interior Yard. There shall be at least a ten-foot setback from each interior property line.
      (3)   Landscaping. The minimum depth of landscaping along the 10600 South street frontage shall be eight
            feet. The minimum depth of landscaping adjacent to all drive access points for the Dimple Dell
            Recreation Center Drive access roads shall be ten feet. Landscaping along the 1000 East Realignment
            shall be at least 15 feet.




                                                      Page 1 of 1
                                                   Exhibit “B”


Sec. 21-19-20. SD (Carnation)-10600 S. 1000E.
(a)   Purpose. The SD(Carnation) Zone is established to provide an area for convenience commercial retail services
      and professional and business offices with development standards compatible with those of contiguous
      properties.
(b)   Uses Allowed.
      (1)   Permitted and Conditional Uses. Permitted or Conditional Uses shall follow the use list for the CvC
            Zone, as listed in Section 21-8-2, with the following exceptions:
            a.   All alcoholic beverage related land uses shall be not permitted within this district with the
                 exception of alcoholic beverage off-premises beer retailer licenses.
            b.   All pharmacy (including ancillary compounding) and medical and health care office uses shall be
                 permitted within this district.
            c.   Drive-up window (non-food) uses (limited to banks, ATMs, dry cleaners, pharmacy, etc.) shall be
                 permitted within this district.
(c)   Development Standards. The following standards shall apply specifically to development in the SD(Carnation)
      Zone. Where a specific standard is not mentioned, the development requirements of the CvC Zone District
      shall apply, in addition to general standards provided in Chapter 21-23. Where conflict may be found to exist,
      the provisions of this zone district shall prevail.
      (1)   Planning Commission Review. Review of all preliminary and final site plans in the SD(Carnation) Zone is
            required by the Planning Commission according to the standards outlined in Chapter 21-32. A Traffic
            Study shall be submitted before Planning Commission review, as may be required by the
            Transportation Engineer.
      (2)   Building Setbacks.
            a.   From All Streets. All buildings shall be set back at least 30 feet from the 10600 South Street right-
                 of-way line. All buildings shall be set back at least 15 feet from the 1000 East realignment right-
                 of-way line.
            b.   Interior Yard. There shall be at least a ten-foot setback from each interior property line.
      (3)   Landscaping. The minimum depth of landscaping along the 10600 South street frontage shall be eight
            feet. The minimum depth of landscaping adjacent to all drive access points for the Dimple Dell
            Recreation Center Drive access roads shall be ten feet. Landscaping along the 1000 East Realignment
            shall be at least 15 feet.




                                                     Page 1 of 1
                                                                 Exhibit "C"

  From: Adam NASH adamnash2022@gmail.com
Subject: Code Amendment
   Date: May 23, 2023 at 10:23 AM
     To: Adam adam@growthaid.com



     Attached please find the General Development Application and the Code Amendment to be applied to property we own adjacent to the Big
     5 on 10600 South 1000 East. It is the property that has sat year after year, 24 do be exact, without being developed to finish off the
     shopping center.

     The property was assembled by Sandy City, Salt Lake County and NuPetco over 20 years ago. This was done to realign 1000 East and
     create a safe intersection with a traffic light going north. 1000 East was vacated where it crossed the property and that land given to
     NuPetco in exchange for the land where 1000 East was moved onto..


     Sec. 21-19-20. - SD (Carnation)-10600 S. 1000E.
                   (a)    Purpose. The SD(Carnation) Zone is established to provide an area for convenience commercial retail services and
                          professional and business offices with development standards compatible with those of contiguous properties.
                   (b)    Uses Allowed.
                           (1)   Permitted and Conditional Uses. Permitted or Conditional Uses shall follow the use list for the CvC Zone, as
                                 listed in Section 21-8-2, with the following exceptions:
                                   a.   All alcoholic beverage related land uses shall be not permitted within this district with the exception of
                                        alcoholic beverage off-premises beer retailer licenses.
                                   b.   All automotive-related land uses, including repair, oil change, gasoline dispensing, rental and other
                                        service activities, shall be not permitted within this district.
                                   c.   All pharmacy (including ancillary compounding) and medical and health care office uses shall be
                                        permitted within this district.
                                   d.   Drive-up window (non-food) uses (limited to banks, ATMs, dry cleaners, pharmacy, etc.) shall be
                                        permitted within this district.
                    (c)   Development Standards. The following standards shall apply specifically to development in the SD(Carnation) Zone.
                          Where a specific standard is not mentioned, the development requirements of the CvC Zone District shall apply, in
                          addition to general standards provided in Chapter 21-23. Where conflict may be found to exist, the provisions of this
                          zone district shall prevail.
                           (1)   Planning Commission Review. Review of all preliminary and final site plans in the SD(Carnation) Zone is
                                 required by the Planning Commission according to the standards outlined in Chapter 21-32. A Traffic Study
                                 shall be submitted before Planning Commission review, as may be required by the Transportation Engineer.
                           (2)   Building Setbacks.
                                   a.   From All Streets. All buildings shall be set back at least 30 feet from the 10600 South Street right-of-
                                        way line. All buildings shall be set back at least 15 feet from the 1000 East realignment right-of-way
                                        line.
                                   b.   Interior Yard. There shall be at least a ten-foot setback from each interior property line.
                           (3)   Landscaping. The minimum depth of landscaping along the 10600 South street frontage shall be eight feet.
                                 The minimum depth of landscaping adjacent to all drive access points for the Dimple Dell Recreation Center
                                 Drive access roads shall be ten feet. Landscaping along the 1000 East Realignment shall be at least 15 feet.
     (LDC 2008, § 15A-19-17; Ord. No. 17-09, 3-9-2017; Ord. No. 19-34 , § 1(exh. A), 12-17-2019; Ord. No.20-06 , § 1(exh. B), 7-7-2020)

     The property created by this assemblage and was zoned by the planners with a unique zone that is only on our property. No One else in
     the city has the same zoning and restrictions. Carnation with the CvC zone underlying the Carnation Zone and then they randomly
     restricted normal businesses from being to experience our awesome property.

     As a matter of fact, Big 5 has been hanging on by a shoe string. They are very excited about another business to bring in shoppers but
     they have only extended their lease to December of 2025.

     THE LAST THING THE CITY WANTS IS ANOTHER BIG BOX RETAILER TO GO OUT OF BUSINESS AND LEAVE THE EMPTY
     BUILDING BEHIND.

     We can’t put a gym here because of the Dimple Dell Recreation Center. Other sub par retailers are not appealing to us. ie Zuchers, All a
     Dollar, Thrift Stores and the like.

     The SD(Carnation) Zone is established to provide an area for convenience commercial retail services

     Certainly C-Store with Self Service Gas is a convenience commercial retail service. This was a big mistake to limit the different type of
     retailers. I had to fight all the way to the top to get a Pharmacy with Drive up window approved. Again a huge mistake. I spent three
     years to finally get this approved. It was finally approved in the middle of COVID and because Jolleys didn’t have a new store to
     compete with the national chains, or a drive up window they almost went bankrupt. There was absolutely no help from the planners or
     public utilities oother than James Sorensen and Andrea in Traffic.


     In order to discuss the application further, I would like to answer the questions proposed in the application:

     a- Is the change reasonably necessary? Yes, for the survival of Big 5 and to buiuld out a shopping center that has sat vacant for the past
     24 years.
                                                                Exhibit "C"

b- Is it in the public interest? Absolutely. The c-store represents competition with other c-stores to keep prices down. Several times
throughout the year the athletic field is way over packed. The c-store would provide refreshments to the parents and fans without having to
drive several blocks.

c- Is it in harmony with the objectives and purposes of the future development of Sandy City? It is. Sandy City prescribes fair and equal land ownership
as does the US Constitution. Sandy City wants new Businesses to come to they city. They bring enormous sales and property taxes.

d- Is the change consistent with the General Plan? Yes. Other than the restrction placed on the property by the Carnation Zone, It matches the General
Plan exactly.


Adam NASH
Adam NASH
adamnash2022@gmail.com
                                             Exhibit "D"
                                                                                                  General Manager
                                       White City Water                                         Paul H. Ashton, J.D.
                                                                                                 Board of Trustees
                                     Improvement District                                      Paulina F. Flint, Chair
                                              999 E. Galena Dr.                         Robert Johansen, Vice Chair
                                              Sandy, Utah 84094                        Christy Seiger-Webster, Clerk
                                                801-571-3991                                  Garry True, Treasurer
                                                                                                Cody Cutler, Trustee



May 15, 2023

Via: email mwilcox@sandy.utah.gov
           lennie@sandy.utah.gov

Mike Wilcox
Planning Director - Sandy City
10000 S. Centennial Parkway
Sandy City, UT 84070

Lennie Chanthaphuang
Chief Engineer - Sandy City
10000 S. Centennial Parkway, Suite 241
Sandy City, UT 84070

Subject: Proposed Service Station at 10600 South 1000 East

Dear Mr. Wilcox and Mr. Chanthaphuang,

White City Water Improvement District (hereafter "WCWID") has been informed that Adam Nash has
proposed the construction and operation of a service station (hereafter "gas station") just outside WCWID's
service area at approximately 10600 South 1000 East, Sandy, Utah. Mr. Nash reached out to WCWID's
Operations Manager Ryan Johnson at the end of March. Mr. Johnson informed him that while WCWID
is generally "not opposed to underground storage tanks as long as all precautions are taken to protect our
drinking water[,]" the underground storage tanks must comply with the Sandy City Source Protection
Ordinance.

The technology for underground storage tanks have improved through the years and the change of
petroleum leakage and contamination has been greatly mitigated. However, any risk of contamination,
however minimal, must be evaluated in conjunction with the potential consequences of such
contamination. In this situation, the potential consequence of leakage and contamination would be
catastrophic to water wells within the area including, but not limited to those owned and run by WCWID,
but also wells owned and run by Sandy City and the Jordan Valley Water Conservation District. In that
regard, the underground aquifer from which those wells draw pristine drinking water would be severely
damaged if petroleum products leak and contaminate the aquifer.

The proposed gas station lies directly in groundwater source protection zone 4 of WCWID's Well No. 3A.
As a special district, WCWID does not have general zoning and police power to enforce source protection
beyond source protection zones 1 and 2 for its wells. As a consequence, it must rely upon counties and
cities to protect source protection zones 3 and 4 for its wells. Mr. Johnson and I have brought this matter
up to the elected WCWID Board of Trustees and they have instructed us to petition Sandy City to not
grant approval for construction of the proposed gas station. WCWD recognizes that other service stations
                                              Exhibit "D"



are present in the community, some of which may also fall within source protection zones of various well
sites. However, there is no need to further increase the risk, however minimal, given the consequences of
leakage and contamination. Even if Sandy City determines that it will grant approval to construction and
operation of the gas station, then WCWID respectfully requests that insurance be obtained that will protect
WCWID from potential harm that may arise as a result of construction and operation of a gas station.

If either of you have any questions, please feel free to advise me.

                                                      Sincerely
                                                      Paul H Ashton
                                                      General Manager/ General Counsel

Sent via e-mail to the following:
Tom Ward -- tward@sandy.utah.gov
Paulina F Flint, Chair -- pbflint@yahoo.com
Cliff Linford -- clinford@sunrise-eng.com
                                                        Exhibit "E"

Melissa Anderson

From:                               Tom Burns <tburnsrn146@gmail.com>
Sent:                               Thursday, June 29, 2023 4:21 PM
To:                                 Melissa Anderson
Cc:                                 adam@gowthaid.com
Subject:                            [EXTERNAL] Feedback on CA052502023-0006537


Ms. Anderson & Mr. Nash,
I was not able to attend the meeting held on 6/27/23 regarding Code Amendment of CA052502023-0006537 984E
10600 S - where a proposal for a new gas station to be built on the corner of 1000E/Carnation and 10600S in the city of
Sandy.

May I voice most ardently to NOT allow this zoning?! Within < 1 mile in either direction to the east and west of
1000E/Carnation, there are THREE gas stations/mini marts. That for this location and population is sufficient. I would
implore that the proposed parcel of land be used and zoned for something else. I would prefer something that would
not add the already busyness and noise of traffic to that intersection. May it be a park, Memorial garden dedicated to
war veterans, a useful orchard or public garden or simply left alone as a natural space?

I don’t see the removal of a retail space like Big 5 as a benefit either.
Thanks for your consideration.
Regards,
Tom

Sent from my iPad
Tom Burns, RN BSN
TBurnsRN146@gmail.com
(801) 448-4466
Seatbelt TOO Confining??? Consider a COFFIN...! Buckle-Up!




                                                                1
Melissa Anderson

From:                          Tyler Huish <tlhuish@hotmail.com>
Sent:                          Tuesday, July 18, 2023 7:00 PM
To:                            Melissa Anderson
Cc:                            schutja@msn.com
Subject:                       [EXTERNAL] Public comment regarding 984 E 10600 S zoning change



Hello Melissa,

First, thank you for taking the time to review my public comment. I will be out of town and not able to attend
the July 20th Sandy City Planning Commission public hearing. Can you please see that the information below is
shared on the 20th?

I am opposed to a gas station being considered at 10600 S 1000E. A gas station is not needed here. I took the
time to map out all the surrounding gas stations and put 1/2-mile radius circles around them. You can see that
the proposed location already has 3 gas stations within ½ mile.




I don't see any value in adding another gas station considering the following:

   1.   The environmental impact it can have
   2.   The added light pollution and noise it will bring, especially at night.
   3.   I don't see it bringing any competitive advantage for consumers (prices won't be lowered)
   4.   Move vehicles are becoming electric and/or hybrid. The need for fuel demand is decreasing.


                                                       1
An additional item to note - The image above only considers locations with fuel pumps. I did not include the 7-
Eleven convenience store which would further overlap the radius of the proposed location.

I do look forward to seeing some light commercial business being added at this location, but not a gas station.
I did look forward to the pharmacy being added because there isn't one nearby, especially within walking
distance. I would love to see that come to fruition.

Thank you for your time.

Tyler Huish
1040 E Larkspur Dr.
Sandy, UT 84094
480-848-3457
tlhuish@hotmail.com

cc: Jan Schutt, neighbor and friend.

Sent from Outlook




                                                       2
From:           Jan A. Schut
To:             Melissa Anderson
Cc:             paulina.flint@whitecity-ut.org
Subject:        [EXTERNAL] Public Hearing July 20, 2023
Date:           Wednesday, July 19, 2023 10:27:49 PM



Dear Melissa Anderson
First of all we wish to thank you for your service to the community. We will not be available to
attend the July 20, 2023 Sandy City Planning Commission public hearing, nor be able to add
our comments via ZOOM regarding the property at 1000 East & 10600 South being considered
as a gas station location. However we would like to add our input via this email and be made a
matter of record at this public hearing. We make the following points.

1. NO NEED FOR ADDITIONAL GAS STATIONS ON 10600 South. From the I-15 exit Eastbound
to 1300 East on 10600 South (a distance of approximately 2.3 miles) there are 6 gas stations
including the closed one. Maverik recently opened with additional 7 pump islands and the
Chevron on 1300 East has been completely remodeled and added pumps. The gas station on
700 East in recent memory has been rebranded as a Tesoro, Shell, Speedway, Exxon, etc. just
to stay in business. We ask, how many more gas stations are needed in that short distance?

2. LOCATION, LOCATION, LOCATION. It appears that the proposal would mean that the Big 5
Sporting Goods store would become the "convenience store" for the gas station and that the
now vacant part of the property would be gas pump islands. It has not been that many years
ago that there was a berm on that part of the property and a vehicle missed the 1000 East
curve to the intersection, hit that berm, went airborne over 10600 South, continued 3 houses
down Carnation Drive before hitting a block wall. What if there would have been gas pumps
there? That is an awkward intersection to put in and out driveways for a gas station. There
have been many times when we have been eastbound in the left-turn lane to Carnation Dr.
only to meet a westbound vehicle head-to-head in that lane trying to turn into the Big 5
driveway. We ask, if there was not enough room to build Jolley Pharmacy on that corner,
what justifies building a gas station there?

3. PUBLIC SAFETY. Residents in the area use the walking trail around the Dimple Dell
Recreation Center. To get to the trail they would have to navigate the in and out traffic from
that gas station to even get to the trail. During youth soccer season there is traffic congestion
along 10600 South, adding a gas station on the corner is going to make it even worse.
Crossing the intersection at 10600 South or 1000 East is hard enough with motorists speeding
and pushing the red light. In addition there are 3 churches within 500 feet of that
intersection, one includes a daycare/pre-school.

4. IMPACT TO THE RESIDENTIAL AREA. Light pollution, noise pollution, traffic congestion,
possible gasoline seepage or spillage, etc. are all things that need to be addressed.
We are OPPOSED to the rezoning and development of this property as a gas station site.

Thank you.
Jan A. & Arlene D. Schut
1035 E Heather Circle
Sandy UT 84094


Sent from Mail for Windows
ABANDONDED SANDY CITY WELLS
From:            Adam Nash
To:              Melissa Anderson
Subject:         [EXTERNAL] White City Water - not opposed to UST
Date:            Thursday, July 20, 2023 8:31:49 AM




Please include in the illustrations



Adam NASH
adamnash2022@gmail.com




On Mar 29, 2023, at 1:07 PM, Ryan Johnson <RyanJohnson@wcwid.org> wrote:

Hi Adam,
Being outside of White City Water’s service area, all we request is you abide by
Sandy City’s Source protection ordinance. There are links to that ordinance on our
website WCWID.org under the “forms and reports” tab. We are not opposed to
underground storage tanks as long as all precautions are taken to protect our drinking
water. Please let me know if there’s any additional information needed. Thank you.
Ryan
WCWID
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Training Videos | Disclaimer | Sign in

                        Utah Environmental Interactive Map                                                                                                1.9.1

                                                                                                                 X                                                        X                                                                   Select Map Data
                +             4
                                  1
                                                           1
                                                                                        3       4                                                                                                          4

                −
                                                   4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Drinking Water
                                                                                                                                                                                       3                       2
                                                                  4
                                                                        2                                                                                                                  4                                                         Public Water System Facilities  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3
                          4                                              JORDAN VALLEY WCD
                                                                                                             12                                   XX                                                           SANDY CITY WATER SYSTEM               Ground Water Protection Zones  
                                                      3                                                                 3
                                                                                                                                                  4 11
                                                                                    X
                                                                                    4                                                                                                                                                                Source Water Assessment Zones 
                
                                                                                                             4
                          21                                                                                                                                          3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Surface Water Protection Zones 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4
                    4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Irrigated Crop Consumptive Use Zones
                                                    11                                                                                                                                 4
                                                                        1
                                                                            3                                                                                                                                                                        

                                  X                                3                                                                                                                               1                                                 Drinking Water System Ratings  
                                                                                                                                                                                                           2
                                              4                                                     41               12
                                                                                                         3                                                                                                         3
                                                                                                                             3                                                                                                                Water Quality
                                                                                                                                          1
                                                                                                                                                  2
                                                               X                                                                                      3           1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4              Air Quality
                                  X                                     1           X       2
                                                                                            4
                                                                                                                                                      XX              2
                                                                                                                                                                               4
                                                                        1
                                                                                                                     1                                                                                                                           Environmental Response &
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Remediation
Give Feedback




                                      4                                                     4                                                                                  3


                                                               4                                                                                                                               4                                                 Waste Management and Radiation
                                                                                                                                                                              12                                                              Control
                                                                                                                                                          1
                                  X                                                                                                                           2                    3
                                                                                                                     12
                                                                                                                             3                                            3                                                                   Environmental Justice
                                          4
                                                                       WHITE CITY WID
                                                                                                                             X                                                                     4

                                                                                                                                          4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Advanced Search
                                                                                                                 1
                                                                                                                         3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              City
                                                                                                                                                  4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Search
                                                                                3
                                                    X 4                         X                                                1                                                                                                       4
                                                  Subject                                                                            2        3                                                                                                                Clear Search
                                                                                                                                                                          4
                                                  Property
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Show Grid
                                                                                                                                                          1
                                                                                                                                                                  2 3
                                                                                                                                     1                                                                                 4                     Download Search Results (225)
                                                                                                                                          3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              select format
                                                                                                                                                                                                           3
                                                                                            4                                                                                                          1
                                                                                                                                                      4
                                                                                                                                     1                                                                                                                     Process Download
                                  X                                                                                                   3
                                          TABLE OF CONTENTS


EXECUTIVE SUMMARY.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Page 1

SCOPE. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Page 2

SITE CONDITIONS. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Page 2

FIELD STUDY.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Page 3

SUBSURFACE CONDITIONS.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Page 3

SUBSURFACE WATER. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Page 4

PROPOSED CONSTRUCTION. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Page 4

RECOMMENDATIONS. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Page 5
     A.  Site Grading. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Page 5
     B.  Foundations. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Page 8
     C.  Concrete Slab-on-Grade. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Page 9
     D.  Lateral Earth Pressures.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Page 10
     E.  Seismicity, Faulting and Liquefaction. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Page 11
     F.  Water Soluble Sulfates.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Page 12
     G.  Pavement.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Page 12
     H.  Preconstruction Meeting.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Page 14

LIMITATIONS.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Page 15

REFERENCES. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Page 16

FIGURES

        EXPLORATORY BORING LOCATIONS                                                     FIGURE 1
        EXPLORATORY BORING LOGS, LEGEND AND NOTES                                        FIGURE 2
        SUMMARY LABORATORY TEST RESULTS                                                  TABLE I
                                                                            Page 1

                        EXECUTIVE SUMMARY


1.   The subsurface conditions encountered in the borings consist of
     approximately ½ foot of topsoil in Boring B-1, and 8 inches and 10 feet of fill
     in Borings B-2 and B-3, respectively. Sand was encountered below the
     topsoil and fill and extends the full depth investigated, approximately 15½
     feet. An approximately 1-foot thick layer of gravel was encountered in Boring
     B-1 at a depth of approximately 1 foot.

2.   No subsurface water was encountered in the borings.

3.   Footings for the proposed buildings may be supported on the natural
     undisturbed soil or on compacted structural fill extending down to the natural
     undisturbed soil and may be designed using the following relationship:

            qa = 650B + 1,000D where:
                  qa = net allowable bearing pressure in psf,
                  B = footing width in feet and
                  D = footing depth in feet.

     The net allowable bearing pressure should be limited to not exceed 3,500 psf.

4.   Based on mottling of the soil in Boring B-3, there appears to have been
     approximately 10 feet of fill in Boring B-3. Review of historical aerial
     photographs of the site show a possible driveway in this area and thus the fill
     could be backfill for a utility. The extent and condition of the fill was not
     investigated as part of this study. Low N-values were obtained in the fill,
     suggesting that the fill was not well compacted. The fill should be removed
     from below proposed buildings, exterior flatwork, pavement and other site
     development sensitive to settlement. The fill encountered in Boring B-3
     consists of sand and could be reused as fill if the organics, debris and other
     deleterious materials are removed.

5.   Geotechnical information related to foundations, subgrade preparation,
     pavement design and materials is included in the report.




     APPLIED GEOTECHNICAL ENGINEERING CONSULTANTS, INC.                     1180462
                                                                                       Page 2

SCOPE


This report presents the results of a geotechnical investigation for buildings planned to be
constructed at 984 East 10600 South in Sandy, Utah. The report presents the subsurface
conditions encountered, laboratory test results and recommendations for foundations and
pavement. The study was conducted in general accordance with our proposal dated
June 6, 2018.


Field exploration was conducted to obtain information on the subsurface conditions.
Samples obtained from the field investigation were tested in the laboratory to determine
physical and engineering characteristics of the on-site soil and to define conditions at the
site for our engineering analysis. Results of the field exploration and laboratory testing were
analyzed to develop recommendations for the proposed buildings and pavement.


This report has been prepared to summarize the data obtained during the study and to
present our conclusions and recommendations based on the proposed construction and the
subsurface conditions encountered. Design parameters and a discussion of geotechnical
engineering considerations related to construction are included in the report.




SITE CONDITIONS


At the time of our field study, there were no permanent structures or pavement on the site.
The site consists of an undeveloped field. Review of historical aerial photographs of the site
indicate that 1000 East Street extended through the proposed parking area between the
proposed buildings. There is a circular driveway extending off 1000 East Street for a house
to the southeast. Most of the rest of the site appears to be undeveloped fields.


The ground surface generally slopes gently down to the west.


Vegetation at the site consists of weeds and a few trees.



               APPLIED GEOTECHNICAL ENGINEERING CONSULTANTS, INC.                      1180462
                                                                                     Page 3

There are asphalt-paved parking lots to the south and north of the west end of the site. The
west side of the property is bordered by 1000 East Street and the north side by 10600
South Street. There is a single-story, masonry retail building with a slab-on-grade floor to
the west.




FIELD STUDY


Three borings were drilled at the approximate locations shown on Figure 1 using 8-inch
diameter, hollow-stem auger powered by a truck-mounted drill rig. The borings were logged
and soil samples obtained by an engineer from AGEC. Logs of the subsurface conditions
encountered in the borings are graphically shown on Figure 2.




SUBSURFACE CONDITIONS


The subsurface conditions encountered in the borings consist of approximately ½ foot of
topsoil in Boring B-1, and 8 inches and 10 feet of fill in Borings B-2 and B-3, respectively.
Sand was encountered below the topsoil and fill and extends the full depth investigated,
approximately 15½ feet. An approximately 1-foot thick layer of gravel was encountered
in Boring B-1 at a depth of approximately 1 foot.


A description of the soil encountered in the borings follows:


       Fill - The fill consists of silty sand. It is slightly moist, brown to dark brown and
       mottled.


       Laboratory tests performed on a sample of the fill indicate it has a moisture content
       of 3 percent and dry density of 100 pounds per cubic foot (pcf).




              APPLIED GEOTECHNICAL ENGINEERING CONSULTANTS, INC.                     1180462
                                                                                     Page 4

        Topsoil - The topsoil consists of silty sand, which is moist, dark brown and contains
        organics.


        Poorly-graded Sand with silt - The sand is medium dense to dense, slightly moist and
        brown.


        Laboratory tests performed on samples of the sand indicate it has natural moisture
        contents ranging from 3 to 6 percent and natural dry densities ranging from 102 to
        104 pcf.


        Silty Gravel with Sand - The gravel is medium dense, slightly moist and brown.


Results of the laboratory tests are summarized on Table I and are included on the logs of the
borings.




SUBSURFACE WATER


No subsurface water was encountered in the borings.




PROPOSED CONSTRUCTION


We anticipate the buildings will be one- to two-story structures with slab-on-grade floors.
We have assumed maximum column loads of 100 kips and maximum wall loads of 5 kips
per lineal foot.


We have assumed two traffic conditions; one consisting predominantly of car traffic, a
second consisting of 10 delivery trucks and one semi per day and two garbage trucks per
week.




                 APPLIED GEOTECHNICAL ENGINEERING CONSULTANTS, INC.                  1180462
                                                                                           Page 5

If the proposed construction, building loads or anticipated traffic is significantly different
from what is described above, we should be notified so that we can reevaluate our
recommendations.




RECOMMENDATIONS


Based on the subsoil conditions encountered, laboratory test results, and the proposed
construction as described above, the following recommendations are given:


A.     Site Grading


       1.     Existing Fill
              Based on mottling of the soil in Boring B-3, there appears to have been
              approximately 10 feet of fill in Boring B-3.          Review of historical aerial
              photographs of the site show a possible driveway in this area and thus the fill
              could be backfill for a utility. The extent and condition of the fill was not
              investigated as part of this study. Low N-values were obtained in the fill,
              suggesting that the fill was not well compacted. The fill should be removed
              from below proposed buildings, exterior flatwork, pavement and other site
              development sensitive to settlement.         The fill encountered in Boring B-3
              consists of sand and could be reused as fill if the organics, debris and other
              deleterious materials are removed.


       2.     Pavement Subgrade Preparation
              Prior to placing grading fill or base course, the organics, topsoil, unsuitable fill,
              debris and other deleterious material should be removed.


       3.     Excavation
              We anticipate that excavation at the site can be accomplished with typical
              excavation equipment.




               APPLIED GEOTECHNICAL ENGINEERING CONSULTANTS, INC.                          1180462
                                                                            Page 6

4.   Cut and Fill Slopes
     Temporary, unretained cut slopes may be constructed at 1½ horizontal to
     1 vertical or flatter.


     Permanent, unretained cut and fill slopes may be constructed at 2 horizontal
     to 1 vertical or flatter.    Slopes should be protected from erosion by
     revegetation or other methods. Surface drainage should be directed away
     from cut and fill slopes.


5.   Compaction
     Compaction of materials placed at the site should equal or exceed the
     minimum densities as indicated below when compared to the maximum dry
     density as determined by ASTM D 1557.



              Fill Location                          Compaction

              Below Building Foundations                $ 95%

              Below Concrete Flatwork                   $ 90%

              Pavement - Subgrade Fill                  $ 90%

              Pavement - Base Course                    $ 95%

              Retaining Wall Backfill                   $ 90%

              Landscape Areas                           $ 85%


     To facilitate the compaction process, fill should be compacted at a moisture
     content within 2 percent of the optimum moisture content. Fill should be
     placed in thin enough lifts to allow for adequate compaction.


     Fill and pavement materials placed for the project should be frequently tested
     for compaction.




     APPLIED GEOTECHNICAL ENGINEERING CONSULTANTS, INC.                    1180462
                                                                                   Page 7

6.   Materials
     Material placed as fill to support foundations should be non-expansive
     granular soil.


     Listed below are materials recommended for imported structural fill.



                 Fill to Support            Recommendations
                 Footings                   Non-expansive granular soil
                                            Passing No. 200 Sieve < 35%
                                            Liquid Limit < 30%
                                            Maximum size 4 inches
                 Floor Slabs                Sand and/or Gravel
                 (Upper 4 inches)           Passing No. 200 Sieve < 5%
                                            Maximum size 2 inches
                 Slab Support               Non-expansive granular soil
                                            Passing No. 200 Sieve < 50%
                                            Liquid Limit < 30%
                                            Maximum size 4 inches


     The sand and gravel at the site meeting the criteria given above for imported
     structural fill may be used as structural fill, site grading fill, fill below proposed
     pavement areas and as utility trench or wall backfill if the topsoil, organics,
     over-sized particles, debris and other deleterious materials are removed or
     they may be used in landscaping areas.


     The moisture of the soil used as fill should be adjusted to within 2 percent of
     optimum prior to compaction. Drying of the soil may not be practical during
     cold or wet times of the year.


7.   Drainage
     The ground surface surrounding the proposed buildings should be sloped
     away from the buildings in all directions. Roof downspouts and drains should
     discharge beyond the limits of backfill.




     APPLIED GEOTECHNICAL ENGINEERING CONSULTANTS, INC.                            1180462
                                                                                  Page 8

           The collection and diversion of drainage away from the pavement surface is
           important to the satisfactory performance of the pavement section. Proper
           drainage should be provided.


B.   Foundations


     1.    Bearing Material
           With the proposed construction and the subsurface conditions encountered,
           the proposed buildings may be supported on spread footings bearing on the
           undisturbed, natural soil or on compacted structural fill extending down to the
           undisturbed, natural soil. Structural fill should extend out away from the edge
           of footings at least a distance equal to the depth of fill beneath footings.


          The topsoil, unsuitable fill, debris and other deleterious materials should be
          removed from below proposed foundation areas.


     2.   Bearing Pressure
          Footings for the proposed buildings may be designed using the following
          relationship:
                   qa = 650B + 1,000D where:
                          qa = net allowable bearing pressure in psf,
                          B = footing width in feet and
                          D = footing depth in feet.


          The net allowable bearing pressure should be limited to not exceed 3,500 psf.


     3.   Settlement
          Based on the subsurface conditions encountered and the building loads as
          described in the proposed construction section of the report, we estimate that
          total and differential settlement for foundations designed as indicated above
          will be approximately 1 inch and ½ inch, respectively.




           APPLIED GEOTECHNICAL ENGINEERING CONSULTANTS, INC.                     1180462
                                                                                  Page 9

           Care will be required to not disturb the natural soil in the base of foundation
           excavations in order to maintain settlement within tolerable limits.


     4.    Temporary Loading Conditions
           The allowable bearing pressure may be increased by one-half for temporary
           loading conditions such as wind or seismic loads.


     5.    Frost Depth
           Exterior footings and footings beneath unheated areas should be placed at
           least 30 inches below grade for frost protection.


     6.    Foundation Base
           The base of footing excavations should be cleared of loose or deleterious
           material prior to structural fill or concrete placement.


     7.    Construction Observation
           A representative of the geotechnical engineer should observe footing
           excavations prior to structural fill or concrete placement.


C.   Concrete Slab-on-Grade


     1.    Slab Support
           Concrete slabs may be supported on the undisturbed natural soil or on
           compacted structural fill extending down to the undisturbed natural soil.


           Topsoil, organics, unsuitable fill and other deleterious materials should be
           removed from below proposed floor slab areas.


     2.    Underslab Sand and/or Gravel
           A 4-inch layer of free-draining sand and/or gravel (less than 5 percent passing
           the No. 200 sieve) should be placed below the concrete slabs for ease of
           construction and to promote even curing of the slab concrete.




            APPLIED GEOTECHNICAL ENGINEERING CONSULTANTS, INC.                    1180462
                                                                                   Page 10

     3.    Vapor Barrier
           A vapor barrier should be placed under the concrete floor if the floor will
           receive an impermeable floor covering. The barrier will reduce the amount of
           water vapor passing from below the slab to the floor covering.


D.   Lateral Earth Pressures


     1.    Lateral Resistance for Footings
           Lateral resistance for spread footings placed on the natural soil or on
           compacted structural fill is controlled by sliding resistance between the footing
           and the foundation soil. A friction value of 0.45 may be used in design for
           ultimate lateral resistance for footings.


     2.    Subgrade Walls and Retaining Structures
           The following equivalent fluid weights are given for design of subgrade walls
           and retaining structures. The active condition is where the wall moves away
           from the soil. The passive condition is where the wall moves into the soil and
           the at-rest condition is where the wall does not move. The values listed
           below assume a horizontal surface adjacent the top and bottom of the wall
           and drained conditions behind the wall.



                       Soil Type                  Active      At-Rest    Passive
                       Clay & Silt                50 pcf      65 pcf    250 pcf
                       Sand & Gravel              40 pcf      55 pcf    300 pcf


     3.    Seismic Conditions
           Under seismic conditions, the equivalent fluid weight should be increased by
           38 pcf for the active condition and 23 pcf for the at-rest condition and
           decreased by 38 pcf for the passive condition. This assumes a peak ground
           acceleration of 0.64g, which represents a 2 percent probability of exceedance
           in a 50-year period (IBC, 2015).




            APPLIED GEOTECHNICAL ENGINEERING CONSULTANTS, INC.                      1180462
                                                                                  Page 11

     4.    Safety Factors
           The values recommended above assume mobilization of the soil to achieve the
           assumed soil strength.     Conventional safety factors used for structural
           analysis for such items as overturning and sliding resistance should be used
           in design.


E.   Seismicity, Faulting and Liquefaction


     1.    Seismicity
           Listed below is a summary of the site parameters for the 2015 International
           Building Code.


           a.     Site Class                                                  D
           b.     Short Period Spectral Response Acceleration, SS             1.46g
           c.     One Second Period Spectral Response Acceleration, S1        0.51g


     2.    Faulting
           There are no mapped active faults extending near or through the site. The
           mapped surface trace of the Wasatch Fault is located approximately 3.3 miles
           to the east (Utah Geological Survey, 2018).


     3.    Liquefaction
           The site is located in an area mapped as having a "very low" potential for
           liquefaction (Salt Lake County, 2002). Research indicates that the soil type
           most susceptible to liquefaction during a large magnitude earthquake is loose,
           clean sand. In order for liquefaction to occur the soil must be saturated. The
           liquefaction potential for soil tends to decrease with an increase in fines
           content and density.




            APPLIED GEOTECHNICAL ENGINEERING CONSULTANTS, INC.                     1180462
                                                                                    Page 12

            Based on the subsurface conditions encountered to the depth investigated and
            our understanding of the geologic conditions in the area, it is our professional
            opinion that liquefaction is not a hazard at the site.


F.   Water Soluble Sulfates


     One sample of the natural soil was tested for water soluble sulfate content. Results
     of the test indicate the soil has less than 0.1 percent water soluble sulfate. Based
     on the results of the testing and published literature, the natural soil possesses a
     negligible sulfate attack potential for concrete. No special cement type is required for
     concrete placed in contact with the soil. Other conditions may dictate the type of
     cement to be used in concrete for the project.


G.   Pavement


     Based on the subsoil conditions encountered, laboratory test results and the assumed
     traffic as indicated in the Proposed Construction section of the report, the following
     pavement support recommendations are given.


     1.     Subgrade Support
            The near surface subgrade soil consists predominantly of sand. We have
            assumed a CBR value of 5 percent which assumes a silty sand subgrade.


     2.     Pavement Thickness
            Based on the subsoil conditions, assumed traffic as described in the Proposed
            Construction section of this report, a design life of 20 years for flexible
            pavement and 30 year for rigid pavement, and methods presented by the Utah
            Department of Transportation, the following pavement sections are calculated:




             APPLIED GEOTECHNICAL ENGINEERING CONSULTANTS, INC.                      1180462
                                                                              Page 13


                                Rigid Pavement             Flexible Pavement
      Daily Traffic                Portland            Asphaltic       Base Course
                               Cement Concrete         Concrete         Thickness
                                  Thickness            Thickness

      Cars                              5"                 3"               6"
      10 Delivery Trucks                5"                 3"               8"
      and 1 semi


     A pavement section consisting of 6½ inches of Portland cement concrete over
     4 inches of base course is recommended for dumpster approach slabs.


3.   Pavement Materials and Construction
     a.      Flexible Pavement (asphaltic concrete)
             The pavement materials should meet the material gradation and quality
             specifications for the applicable jurisdiction. The use of other materials
             may result in the need for different pavement material thicknesses.


     b.      Rigid Pavement (Portland cement concrete)
             The pavement thickness indicated assumes that the pavement will
             have aggregate interlock joints and that a concrete shoulder or curb will
             be provided.


             The pavement materials should meet the specifications for the
             applicable jurisdiction.   The pavement thickness indicated above
             assumes that the concrete will have a 28-day compressive strength of
             at least 5,000 pounds per square inch.          Concrete should be air
             entrained with approximately 6 percent air. The maximum allowable
             slump will depend on the method of placement, but should not exceed
             4 inches.




     APPLIED GEOTECHNICAL ENGINEERING CONSULTANTS, INC.                          1180462
                                                                                  Page 14

     4.     Jointing
            Joints for concrete pavement should be laid out in a square or rectangular
            pattern. Joint spacings should not exceed 30 times the thickness of the slab.
            The joint spacings indicated should accommodate the contraction of the
            concrete and under these conditions steel reinforcing will not be required. The
            depth of joints should be approximately one-fourth of the slab thickness.


H.   Preconstruction Meeting


     A preconstruction meeting should be held with representatives of the owner, project
     architect, geotechnical engineer, general contractor, earthwork contractor and other
     members of the design team to review construction plans, specifications, methods
     and schedule.




            APPLIED GEOTECHNICAL ENGINEERING CONSULTANTS, INC.                     1180462
                                                                                    Page 16

                                       REFERENCES


International Building Code, 2015; International Code Council, Inc., Falls Church, Virginia.

Salt Lake County, 2002; Surface Rupture and Liquefaction Potential Special Study Areas
Map, Salt Lake County, Utah, adopted March 31, 1989, updated March 2002, Salt Lake
County Public Works - Planning Division, 2001 South State Street, Salt Lake City, Utah.

Utah Geological Survey, 2018; Utah Quaternary Fault and Fold Database,
http://geology.utah.gov/resources/data-databases/qfaults/ Accessed January 4, 2018.




               APPLIED GEOTECHNICAL ENGINEERING CONSULTANTS, INC.                    1180462
                                                                                        BM - Top of Fire Hydrant
                                                                                        Elev. 100' assumed




                                                                                                      B-1




                                                         B-2
                                                                                                    B-3




                                                               PROPOSED COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT
                                                                     984 EAST 10600 SOUTH
                                                                          SANDY, UTAH
0         40          80 feet
    Approximate Scale

1180462                   Exploratory Boring Locations                                                      Figure 1
Melissa Anderson

From:                          Adam NASH <adamnash2022@gmail.com>
Sent:                          Monday, August 7, 2023 10:02 AM
To:                            Melissa Anderson
Cc:                            Adam NASH; Scott Babcock; Wayne Petty; Ryan Johansen; Troy Johansen
Subject:                       [EXTERNAL] DEQ Requirements for UST in Ground Water Protection Zones.




Melissa,

Please provide this letter to the Sandy City, City Council before the Work Shop tomorrow.

Regarding ordinance amendment 984 East 10600 South in the Carnation Zone/Ground
Water Protection Zone 3-4

The DEQ Map at the bottom of the page shows virtually all of Sandy City is in some
Ground Water Protection Zone.

Zone one is a 100-foot radius around a groundwater source (well or spring). Zone two is a 250-day
groundwater time of travel, zone three is a 3-year groundwater time of travel, and zone four is a 15-year
groundwater time of travel.

Utah DEQ UST

Our site is located in Zone 4. Zone 4 is a 15-year ground water time of travel. This means a release at
this location would take a 15 years to reach the source. This is an extremely long amount of time for a
release to go undetected. BMP requires tank monitoring, line leak detection and double walled tanks.
These protection measures as well as regular inspections and reports accounting for inventory.

Residential UST are a Permitted Use in Zone 3-4. Commercial UST are a Conditional Use
in Zone 3-4.

Gasoline service stations including underground storage tanks is a Conditional Use in Zone 3 and 4.

18.115.060 identifies uses that have varying potentials to contaminate groundwater
sources. These uses have been classified according to the risk of contamination in each
protection zone as follows:

     (a) Permitted Uses (P). The risk of contamination is considered relatively low in the
     specified zone if regulatory requirements and best management practices are
     implemented and, therefore, the use is permitted.

     (b) Conditional Uses (C). The risk of contamination is moderate in the specified zone.
     The planning commission may permit the use only after conditional use review and
                                                       1
      approval. Approval is subject to implementation of best management practices and
      the planning commission may establish compliance with other reasonable conditions.
      The Utah Division of Drinking Water Quality shall review all conditional use requests.

      (c) Prohibited Uses (X). The risk of contamination is very high in the specified zone.
      The use is not permitted.


                                                                     Table 18.115.060

                                                  Use Matrix for Potential Contamination Sources


                                                          Protection Zone
   Potential Contamination Source                                             Zones                 Related Regulations
                                                Primary   Secondary Zone Zone
                                                                              3 and
                                               Recharge   Recharge   1    2
                                                                                4
Abandoned wells                                   X              X        X      X      X   UAC R655-4, 12.1 to 12.2 for
                                                                                            requirements to abandon wells
Agricultural pesticide, herbicide, and            C           C           X      C      C   FIFRA (40 CFR 152 – 157); RCRA De
fertilizer storage, use, filling, and mixing                                                Subtitle C; Utah Pesticide Control Ag
areas                                                                                       Act
Airport maintenance and fueling sites             C           C           X      C      C   Stormwater; UST
Appliance repair                                  P              P        X      P      P   RCRA Subtitle C
Auto operations and fleet vehicle                 C           C           X      C      C                                     Sa
maintenance facilities (commercial):                                                                                          he
   • Dealership maintenance                                                                 RCRA Subtitle C; UST;
   departments                                                                              Pretreatment
   • Tire
   • Auto body
   • Engine repair
   • Rust proofing
   • Oil and lube shops                                                                     Used Oil (UAC R315-15)
   • Vehicle rental with maintenance
Beauty salons                                     C              P        X      C      P
Boat building and refinishing                     C              P        X      C      C   RCRA Subtitle C
Car washes                                        C              P        X      P      P   Pretreatment                      Co
                                                                                                                              pla
                                                                                                                              de
Cemeteries, golf courses, parks, and              C           C           X      C      C   FIFRA
plant nurseries
Chemical reclamation facilities                   C           C           X      C      C   RCRA Subtitle G
Chemigation wells                                 C           C           X      X      C   UIC
Concrete, asphalt, and tar companies              C           C           X      C      C
Dairy farms and animal feed lots (more            C              P        X      X      P   UPDES (UAC R317-8)
than 10 animal units)
Dry cleaners (with on-site chemicals)             C           C           X      X      P   RCRA Subtitle C; Pretreatment     Sa
                                                                                                                              he

                                                             2
                                                                     Table 18.115.060

                                                  Use Matrix for Potential Contamination Sources



                                                          Protection Zone
   Potential Contamination Source                                             Zones                Related Regulations
                                                Primary   Secondary Zone Zone
                                                                              3 and
                                               Recharge   Recharge   1    2
                                                                                4
Dry cleaners (without on-site chemicals)          P              P        X      P      P
Embalming services                                C           C           X      C      C   Pretreatment
Farm operations
  • Dump sites                                    X           C           X      C      C   Used Oil (UAC R315-15);
                                                                                            Solid and Hazardous (RCRA
                                                                                            Subtitle C)
  • Maintenance garages                           C           C           X      C      C   Used Oil; RCRA Subtitle C
  • Manure piles (<100 cubic feet-                C           C           X      C      P   UPDES (UAC R317-8);
  residential, 3,600 cubic feet-                                                            Groundwater (UAC R317-6)
  agricultural)
Food processing, meat packing, and                C           C           X      X      P   UPDES (UAC R317-8);
slaughter houses                                                                            Pretreatment
Fuel, oil, and heating oil distribution and       X           C           X      C      C   Subsections (1) through (5) of this
storage facilities                                                                          section
Furniture stripping, painting, and                C           C           X      C      C   RCRA Subtitle C
finishing businesses
Gasoline service stations (including              C           C           X      C      C   Local zoning and land use
underground storage tanks)                                                                  regulations; UST guidelines
Hospitals and medical, dental, and                C           C           X      C      C   Solid and Hazardous
veterinary offices
Industrial manufacturers of: chemicals,           X           C           X      C      C   Subsections (1) through (5) and (7)
pesticides, herbicides, paper products,                                                     of this section; FIFRA; RCRA
leather products, textiles, rubber, plastic,                                                Subtitle C
fiberglass, silicone, glass,
pharmaceuticals, and electrical
equipment, etc.
Industrial waste disposal/impoundment             X           C           X      X      C   Groundwater (UAC R317-6); RCRA
areas                                                                                       Subtitle C
Junk and salvage yards                            X           C           X      C      C                                         Sa
                                                                                                                                  he
Landfills and transfer stations                   X           C           X      C      P   UDSW, Solid Waste Rules (UAC
                                                                                            R315-301 – R315-320); subsection
                                                                                            (12) of this section; RCRA Subtitle
                                                                                            D
Laundromats                                       C              P        X      P      P   Pretreatment
Machine shops, metal plating, heat                X           C           X      C      C   Pretreatment; RCRA Subtitle C
treating, smelting, annealing, and
descaling facilities
Mining operations
  • Radiological                                  C           C           X      P      P   UAC R313-25;
                                                                                            Groundwater (UAC R317-6)


                                                             3
                                                                     Table 18.115.060

                                                  Use Matrix for Potential Contamination Sources



                                                          Protection Zone
   Potential Contamination Source                                             Zones                Related Regulations
                                                Primary   Secondary Zone Zone
                                                                              3 and
                                               Recharge   Recharge   1    2
                                                                                4
   • Sand and gravel excavation and               C              P        X      P      P   Construction (UAC R317-1)
   processing
Municipal wastewater treatment plants             C           C           X      X      P   UDDWQ, Design Requirements for
                                                                                            Wastewater Collection, Treatment,
                                                                                            and Disposal Systems (UAC R317-
                                                                                            3)
Photo processing and print shops                  C           C           X      C      C   Pretreatment
Railroad yards                                    C              P        X      P      P   Used Oil
Residential pesticide, herbicide, and             C              P        X      C      C                                         Fo
fertilizer storage, use, filling, and mixing                                                                                      ma
areas                                                                                                                             dir
                                                                                                                                  an
Residential underground storage tanks             X           C           X      C      P   UAC R311-203, R311-205 and
                                                                                            R311-206
RV waste disposal stations                        C           C           X      X      P   UAC R392
Salt and salt-sand piles                          C           C           X      C      C   Subsection (11) of this section       DE
Septic tank drain field systems                   X           C           X      X      C   UDDWQ, Individual Wastewater
                                                                                            Disposal Systems (UAC R317-501
                                                                                            – R317-513); State Department of
                                                                                            Health, Code of Waste Disposal
                                                                                            Regulations, Parts IV and V
Stormwater detention basin and snow               C           C           X      C      P
storage sites
Toxic chemical storage and oil pipelines          X              X        X      X      X   Subsections (1) through (5) of this
                                                                                            section
Wood preservative treatment facilities            X           C           X      C      C
Stormwater: UAC R317-8-3.9(1)(a) – (d)                 UDOGM: Utah Division of Oil, Gas, and Mining
Pretreatment: Contact local municipal wastewater plant UDSW: Utah Division of Solid Waste
UAC: Utah Administrative Code                          RCRA: Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
UDDWQ: Utah Division of Drinking Water Quality
(2) Storage Containers. All regulated substances shall be stored in suitable containers to
reduce the chance for the substances to be accidentally introduced into the environment.
These storage containers shall be product-tight and, except where provided elsewhere in
this chapter, shall be provided with a means to control spillage (primary containment) and
to contain or drain off spillage and fire-protection water discharged in the storage area
(secondary containment).

Storage containers which are stored outside must be covered or mounted to prevent the
accumulation of rain or other water on the top of the container, or the degradation of the
top, sides or bottom of the container, in a manner that would lead to the reduction of the

                                                             4
integrity of the container. Defective storage containers shall be removed from service for
repair or disposal in accordance with local, state, and federal standards.

(3) Secondary Containment. Where secondary containment is required, it shall be
constructed of a material of sufficient structural integrity and composition to contain the
required capacity of liquids and not be structurally weakened as a result of contact with
the discharge of the regulated substance to be contained. The material shall be free of
cracks, joints, gaps, or other imperfections that would allow leakage through the
containment material.

The secondary containment system shall have sufficient capacity to contain (a) 10 percent
of the volume of all containers and 100 percent of the volume of the largest single
container, whichever is greater, plus (b) the design flow rate of the automatic fire
extinguishing system (for 20 minutes) for the area or room in which the storage is located.
If the storage area and/or containment area is open to rainfall, the secondary containment
system must also accommodate the volume of a 24-hour rainfall as determined by a 25-
year storm frequency. Liquid that accumulates in the secondary containment system shall
be removed in as timely a manner as necessary to prevent overflow of the system.
Nonhazardous liquids may be drained in accordance with applicable local regulations. If
the collected material is a hazardous waste under 40 CFR 261, it must be managed as a
hazardous waste in accordance with all applicable requirements
of 40 CFR 262 through 266.

Vacuum suction devices, absorbent scavenger materials or other devices approved by the
department shall be present on site or available to facilitate the removal or further
containment of spilled regulated substances. Devices or materials shall be available in
sufficient magnitude so as to at least control and collect the total quantity of regulated
substances that the containment system is designed to contain. Emergency containers
shall be present and of such capacity as to hold the total quantity of regulated substances
plus absorbent material.

(4) Regulated Substances Emergency Management Plan. An emergency plan shall be
prepared and filed with the department, the fire department, the police department, and
the PWS indicating the procedures that will be followed in the event of the release of a
regulated substance so as to control and collect all such spilled material in such a manner
as to prevent it from discharging into any storm or sanitary drains or the ground. Facilities
which have had, or appear to have had, unauthorized discharges to soil or groundwater
shall be required by the department to submit a regulated substances management plan
for the facility. The written plan will be used to demonstrate to the department that the
facility owner or operator understands the procedures and has the proper equipment to
handle regulated substances within the guidelines of this chapter. The plan should not be
implemented without the approval of the department.

(5) Reporting of Spills. Any spill of a regulated substance in excess of the nonaggregate
quantity thresholds established by the list of hazardous waste (40 CFR 261, Subpart
                                               5
D), 40 CFR 261 Appendix VIII, Hazardous Constituents, and EPA Designation Reportable
Quantities and Notification Requirements for Hazardous Substances under CERCLA
(40 CFR 302) shall be reported by telephone to the city and designated water utility within
one hour of discovery of the spill. Cleanup shall commence immediately upon discovery of
the spill. A full written report shall be submitted to the city within 15 days of discovery of
the spill.

(6) Best Management Practices. Under the provisions of this chapter, all potential
contamination sources within the city’s boundaries shall incorporate and utilize best
management practices (BMPs) in their operations. BMPs that reduce the potential for
spills and leaks at a site to occur and enter groundwater shall be construed within the
context of this chapter to include, but not be limited to, structural and nonstructural
practices, conservation practices, and operation and maintenance procedures as specified
by the Utah Department of Drinking Water Quality and the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency.

(7) Underground Storage Tanks. Installation of any new underground storage tanks used
to store regulated substances for either residential or nonresidential activities in recharge
areas and protection zones designated under RCC 18.115.040(2) and (3) shall require a
secondary containment system for the tank and associated underground piping, and an
automatic leak detection system.




                                               6
7
Adam NASH
adamnash2022@gmail.com




                         8
