                                                         S ANDY CITY C O M M UN IT Y D E V EL O P ME N T
                                                                                                                                                         JAMES SORENSEN
                                                                                                                                                      COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
                                                                                                                                                            DIRECTOR

                                                                                                                                                           MONICA ZOLTANSKI
                                                                                                                                                               MAYOR

                                                                                                                                                           SHANE E. PACE
                                                                                                                                                        CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE
                                                                                                                                                               OFFICER



                                              Staff Report Memorandum
                                                                    December 14, 2023


     To:                   City Council via Planning Commission
     From:                 Community Development Department
     Subject:              Amendments to Title 21 of the Land Development Code                                                                CA09212023-0006626
                           related to Limiting Transitional Housing Facilities in the City


     Public Hearing Notice: This item has been noticed on public websites, sent to affected entities and
                                                    posted in three public locations at least 10 days prior to the Public Hearing.


Request
     On behalf of Sandy City, the Community Development Department is proposing to amend Title 21, Land Development
     Code, Chapter 8, Section 2, Permitted Land Use Matrix by the Commercial, Office, Industrial, Mixed Use, Transit Corridor,
     and Research and Development Districts, to limit Transitional Housing Facilities within the City. A "Transitional Housing
     Facility" is defined in the Land Development Code under Sec. 21-37-21(15)1.

     The proposed code amendment limits Transitional Housing Facilities with a
     conditional use permit to only one property in the RC – Regional
     Commercial District zone, at 8955 S. Harrison Street (Lot 3 of the Ark
     Subdivision). The specific amendment to the Land Development Code are
     included as Exhibit “A” (red-lined version) and Exhibit “B” (clean version).

Background
     On September 19, 2023, the City Council directed staff to review and amend
     the City’s land use regulations in a manner that would limit the number of
     “Transitional Housing Facilities” allowed in the City. Staff were directed to
     study the issue and bring back a recommendation for appropriate changes to the land use code for consideration and decision
     by the Council within 180 days. Following the City Council’s direction, staff prepared a code amendment that limits
     Transitional Housing Facilities to only one property in the RC zone, with conditional use permit approval from the Planning
     Commission.

1
    Transitional housing facility means a facility owned, operated, or contracted by a governmental entity or a charitable, nonprofit organization which provides non-congregate
     interim housing, on a referral (non-walkup) basis only, with on-site supportive services to persons experiencing homelessness for a total anticipated stay of no more than 24
     months while they obtain work, job skills, or otherwise take steps to stabilize their circumstances. A transitional housing facility does not include:
     a. A homeless shelter;
     b. A detached single family dwelling unit provided to a family for its exclusive use as part of a transitional housing program for more than 30 days; or
     c. A residential facility for persons with a disability.
        10000 Centennial P arkway                 | S a n d y, U t a h 8 4 0 7 0    |   p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   |   f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8    |   sandy.utah. gov
Amendments Related to Limiting Transitional Housing Facilities – CA09212023-0006626                                                                                       Page 2



                                                                         Case History
       Case Number                                                                              Case Summary
                                                   Application for a Conditional Use Permit by property owner Shelter The Homeless to
                                                   operate a Transitional Housing Facility for Medically Vulnerable People in the RC zone
   CUP07282023-006576
                                                   at 8955 S. Harrison St. The facility is a change of use from the previous 98-room hotel,
                                                   formerly known as the Econo Lodge Inn & Suites. (09/07/2023)
                                                   Code Amendment to Title 21, Land Development Code, Chapter 37, Definitions, Section
                                                   21, ”T” Definitions, Subsection 15, “Transitional Housing Facility” to clarify that a
      Ord. No. 23-17
                                                   Transitional Housing Facility provides non-congregate interim housing for no more than
   CA07282023-0006578                              24 months on a referral (non-walkup) basis only, with on-site supportive services to
                                                   persons experiencing homelessness. (10/03/2023)


Public Notice
 The city issued notice of the public hearing for the proposed code amendments on public websites, mailed notice to affected
 entities and posted in three public locations at least 10 days prior to the Planning Commission public hearing in accordance
 with the Land Development Code Sec. 21-36-1 and the Utah State Code § 10-9a-205.

Analysis
 Currently, seven commercial zoning districts allow Transitional Housing Facilities, with conditional use permit approval
 from the Planning Commission. These include the CBD, CR-PUD, RC, BC, CC, CN(HSN), and LC zoning districts (see
 land use matrix under Sec. 21-8-2). In all other zones, Transitional Housing Facilities are not a permitted use.

 The code amendment limits Transitional Housing Facilities to only one property, Lot 3 of the Ark Subdivision (see Exhibit
 “C”), in the RC zone with conditional use permit approval from the Planning Commission. In all other zones and all other
 properties within the RC zone, Transitional Housing Facilities will not be permitted.

Non-Conforming Uses
 This code amendment would not create any non-conforming situations. There is one existing transitional housing facility
 in the City that was approved with a conditional use permit at 8955 S Harrison Street under case file CUP07282023-
 006576. The proposed code amendment would allow the existing Transitional Housing Facility for medically vulnerable
 people at 8955 S Harrison Street to remain without becoming a non-conforming use, but it would prohibit any new
 Transitional Housing Facility from being established elsewhere in the city.

Land Development Code Purpose Compliance
 The Sandy City Land Development Code in 21-1-3 lists the criteria explaining the intent and purpose of the Ordinance.
 The purpose is:
       21-1-3 Purpose
       This Code is adopted to implement Sandy City’s General Plan and to promote public health, safety, convenience,
       aesthetics, welfare; efficient use of land; sustainable land use and building practices; transportation options and
       accessibility; crime prevention; timely citizen involvement in land use decision making; and efficiency in development
       review and land use administration. Specifically, this Code is established to promote the following purposes:
       1. General
          a. To facilitate the orderly growth and development of Sandy City.
          b. To facilitate adequate provision for transportation, water, sewage, schools, parks, and other public
             requirements.
          c. To stabilize property values.
      1 0 0 0 0 C e n t e n n i a l Pa r k w a y   | S a n d y, U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   |   p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   |   f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   |   s a n d y . u t a h . g ov
Amendments Related to Limiting Transitional Housing Facilities – CA09212023-0006626                                                                                       Page 3

             d. To enhance the economic well-being of Sandy City and its inhabitants.
       2. Implementation of General Plan
          To coordinate and ensure the implementation of the City’s General Plan through effective execution of
          development review requirements, adequate facility and services review and other goals, policies, or programs
          contained in the General Plan.
       3. Comprehensive, Consistent and Equitable Regulations
          To establish a system of fair, comprehensive, consistent and equitable regulations, standards and procedures for
          review and approval of all proposed land development within the City.
       4. Efficiently and Effectively Managed Procedures
          a. To promote fair procedures that are efficient and effective in terms of time and expense.
          b. To be effective and responsive in terms of the allocation of authority and delegation of powers and duties
               among ministerial, appointed, and elected officials.
          c. To foster a positive customer service attitude and to respect the rights of all applicants and affected citizens.

 The proposed code amendment is consistent with the purpose of the Land Development Code because the proposal
 promotes the public health, safety and welfare; ensures consistency and equitable standards; establishes fair procedures that
 are efficient and effective in terms of time and expense; facilitates the orderly growth and development of Sandy City; and
 is consistent with the Sandy City General Plan.

General Plan Compliance
 The Sandy City General Plan encourages appropriate development standards for all uses and zoning categories within the
 city. The proposed code amendment furthers that goal and objective by establishing appropriate land development standards
 for all uses and zoning categories within Sandy City.

Recommendation
 Staff recommends that the Planning Commission forward a positive recommendation to the City Council to amend Title
 21, of the Sandy Municipal Code, relating to limiting Transitional Housing Facilities in the City, as shown in Exhibit “A”,
 based on the following findings:

Findings:
    1. The City Council may amend land use ordinances consistent with the purposes of the Sandy Land Development
       Code, the Sandy City General Plan, and the Utah Code, Municipal Land Use, Development, and Management Act
       per Title 21 Chapter 5 of the Sandy Municipal Code.
   2. The proposal is reviewed by the Planning Commission and City Council in accordance with the requirements of Title
      21 Chapter 5 of the Sandy Municipal Code.
   3. The proposal complies with the purpose of the Land Development Code under Section 21-1-03 by promoting the
      public health, safety, and welfare; ensuring consistent and equitable standards; establishing fair procedures that are
      efficient and effective in terms of time and expense; and by facilitating the orderly growth and development of Sandy
      City.
   4. The proposal complies with the Goals and Policies of the General Plan by establishing appropriate development
      standards for all uses and zoning categories within Sandy City.

 Planner:


 Melissa Anderson
      1 0 0 0 0 C e n t e n n i a l Pa r k w a y   | S a n d y, U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   |   p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   |   f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   |   s a n d y . u t a h . g ov
Amendments Related to Limiting Transitional Housing Facilities – CA09212023-0006626                                                                                       Page 4

 Zoning Administrator

 Exhibits:
    A. Proposed code amendments (red-lined version)
    B. Proposed code amendments (clean version)
    C. Ark Subdivision Plat


 File Name: S:\USERS\PLN\STAFFRPT\2023\CA09212023-0006626 LIMIT TRANSITIONAL HOUSING FACILITIES\STAFF REPORT\STAFF REPORT -
 LIMIT TRANSITIONAL HOUSING FACILITIES CODE AMEND.FINAL.DOCX




      1 0 0 0 0 C e n t e n n i a l Pa r k w a y   | S a n d y, U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   |   p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   |   f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   |   s a n d y . u t a h . g ov
                                                               Exhibit “A”



CHAPTER 21-8. - LAND USES IN THE COMMERCIAL, OFFICE, INDUSTRIAL, MIXED USE, TRANSIT CORRIDOR,
                 AND RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT DISTRICTS

Sec. 21-8-2. Permitted Land Use Matrix by the Commercial, Office, Industrial, Mixed Use, Transit Corridor,
             and Research and Development Districts.
(a)   Matrix Explanation. The following matrix lists all permitted uses within Sandy City commercial, office, industrial, mixed use,
      transit corridor, and research and development districts. The letters "P," "C," "S," or "N" shall mean "Permitted," "Conditional,"
      "Special Use," or "Not Permitted," respectively. Refer to special use standards within this title for all land uses allowed with an
      "S." For those letters which are followed by a slash "/" the second letter shall indicate those location restrictions for businesses
      located within 250 feet of a residential district (unless bisected by a major arterial road as determined by the Sandy City
      Transportation Engineer in the Transportation Element of the Sandy City General Plan). For those land uses marked with a
      superscript number (1 ), refer to Subsection (c) of this section for explanation.
(b)   Table of Uses.

          Land Use           C   C    C   C   C RC        B   C     C    C   C    H    L     P I A A M T               R
          Category           B   B    B   B   R           C   C     N    v   N    B    C     O D M M U C               D
                             D   D    D   D   -                          C   (    D              ( (
                                 -P   -   -   P                              H                   D C
                                      O   A   U                              S                   e o
                                          &   D                              N                   a m
                                          C                                  )                   l m
                                                                                                 e e
                                                                                                 r r
                                                                                                 s c
                                                                                                 h i
                                                                                                 i a
                                                                                                 p l)
                                                                                                 s
                                                                                                 )
          Transitional       C   N    N   N   C   C26     C   C     N    N   C    N    C     N   N   N    N   N    N   N
          housing facility   N                N           N   N              N         N
          (must comply
          with
          development
          standards for
          that zone (i.e.,
          setback,
          height, bulk,
          min./max.
          square
          footage))
      …
          (c)    Explanatory Notes for Land Use Matrix.
                 …
                 26.   A maximum of one Transitional Housing Facility may be allowed as a conditional use on Lot 3 of the Ark
                       Subdivision.




                                                               Page 1 of 1
                                                               Exhibit “B”



CHAPTER 21-8. - LAND USES IN THE COMMERCIAL, OFFICE, INDUSTRIAL, MIXED USE, TRANSIT CORRIDOR,
                 AND RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT DISTRICTS

Sec. 21-8-2. Permitted Land Use Matrix by the Commercial, Office, Industrial, Mixed Use, Transit Corridor,
             and Research and Development Districts.
(a)   Matrix Explanation. The following matrix lists all permitted uses within Sandy City commercial, office, industrial, mixed use,
      transit corridor, and research and development districts. The letters "P," "C," "S," or "N" shall mean "Permitted," "Conditional,"
      "Special Use," or "Not Permitted," respectively. Refer to special use standards within this title for all land uses allowed with an
      "S." For those letters which are followed by a slash "/" the second letter shall indicate those location restrictions for businesses
      located within 250 feet of a residential district (unless bisected by a major arterial road as determined by the Sandy City
      Transportation Engineer in the Transportation Element of the Sandy City General Plan). For those land uses marked with a
      superscript number (1 ), refer to Subsection (c) of this section for explanation.
(b)   Table of Uses.

          Land Use           C   C    C   C   C RC        B   C     C    C   C    H    L     P I A A M T               R
          Category           B   B    B   B   R           C   C     N    v   N    B    C     O D M M U C               D
                             D   D    D   D   -                          C   (    D              ( (
                                 -P   -   -   P                              H                   D C
                                      O   A   U                              S                   e o
                                          &   D                              N                   a m
                                          C                                  )                   l m
                                                                                                 e e
                                                                                                 r r
                                                                                                 s c
                                                                                                 h i
                                                                                                 i a
                                                                                                 p l)
                                                                                                 s
                                                                                                 )
          Transitional       N   N    N   N   N   C26     N   N     N    N   N    N    N     N   N   N    N   N    N   N
          housing facility
          (must comply
          with
          development
          standards for
          that zone (i.e.,
          setback,
          height, bulk,
          min./max.
          square
          footage))
      …
          (c)    Explanatory Notes for Land Use Matrix.
                 …
                 26.   A maximum of one Transitional Housing Facility may be allowed as a conditional use on Lot 3 of the Ark
                       Subdivision.




                                                               Page 1 of 1
EXHIBIT "C"
