                                     S A N DY C I T Y C O M M U N I T Y D E V E L O P M E N T
                                                                                                                                      JAMES SORENSEN
                                                                                                                                   COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
                                                                                                                                         DIRECTOR

                                                                                                                                        MONICA ZOLTANSKI
                                                                                                                                            MAYOR

                                                                                                                                         SHANE E. PACE
                                                                                                                                  CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER




                              Staff Report Memorandum
                                                          May 4, 2023


To:            Planning Commission
From:          Community Development Department
Subject:       Red Sky Apartments (Mixed Use Development)                                                          CUP04272023-006525
               10145 S Centennial Pkwy.                                                                         CBD Zone, Cairns District
               [Commercial Area, #9]                                                                              1.5 Acres, 162 Units (8
                                                                                                           Live/Work), 1,900 Sq. Ft. Retail


 Meeting Notice:                 This item has been noticed to property owners within 500 feet of the subject
                                 area, on public websites, and at public locations.



Request
 The applicants, Corey Solum & Troy Tueller of Think
 Architecture (representing the property owner, McKay Christensen
 of RedSky Sandy, LLC), are seeking approval of a conditional use
 permit for a mixed use development within the CBD and Cairns
 District known as Red Sky Apartments on a property located at
 10145 S. Centennial Pkwy. The proposal is to construct a six-story
 mixed use building consisting of primarily residential for-rent
 apartments, urban townhomes, a small amount of ground floor
 retail, and live/work units (see Exhibit “A” of the Site Plan Review
 file (SPR12062022-006452) for the application materials).

Background
 The property is bordered by the South Town Marketplace to the
 east and south zoned Central Business District (CBD) which is a
 single level retail power center that features Target and other
 associated retail and restaurant users. To the west is the City
 Promenade along Centennial Parkway which is city owned festival
 open space zoned Central Business District – Parkway Subdistrict
 (CBD-P). To the north is the Sandy One Office Building which is
 zoned Central Business District – Office (CBD-0), which is a five-
 story office building with a University of Utah Extension as their
 primary tenant. With these surrounding developments, this vacant
 parcel has full site improvements for streets and utilities.

     10000 Centennial Parkway      | S a nd y , U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   | p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   | f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8     | s a n d y . u t a h . go v
Red Sky Apartments (Mixed Use Development) – CUP04272023-006525                                                                                         Page 2


                                              Property Case History
      Case Number                                                               Case Summary
                                This parcel was shown on the approved site plan for the South Town
        SPR #95-01
                                Marketplace as Area 5. It was identified as a future pad site for retail use.
                                A failed development proposal to create 3 pad site retail buildings that were
        SPR #97-08
                                single level that was known as South Towne Marketplace Lot 5
                                A mixed use development proposal that was never built, known as Centennial
       SPR #06-28               Parkway Plaza, that included a mix of retail on the main level with 2 level
                                townhomes above.

                                                              This property is within the Cairns District and is part of the
                                                              South Village, which is bounded by the Jordan and Salt Lake
                                                              City Canal on the north, 10600 South on the south, State Street
                                                              on the east and the 1-15 freeway on the west. The city worked
                                                              with the willing property owners within
                                                              this area to create an adopted mixed use
                                                              master plan to guide future development
                                                              in the area. This area is intended to
                                                              accommodate a variety of uses to create
                                                              a walkable urban environment. This
                                                              would be the first project to be
                                                              developed on Centennial Parkway under
                                                              the Cairns Design Standards.

                                                              Public Notice and Outreach
                                                              This item has been noticed to property owners within 500 feet of
                                                              the subject area. No neighborhood meeting has been held as this
                                                              property is within a commercial area with no existing residential
                                                              properties near the proposed area.

                                                              Analysis
                                                              The subject property is within the city’s central business district.
                                                              The purpose of this zone is to stimulate economic development
                                                              by providing a unique planning environment for large-scale
                                                              regional commercial and office development adjacent to
                                                              Interstate 15. This district encourages creative development and
                                                              site design for regional commercial and office uses within
                                                              planned commercial centers which will serve the south valley
                                                              area.

                                                              The concept of residential and mixed use is allowed in the CBD
                                                              Zone and represents a departure from traditional zoning to the
                                                              extent that it encourages a combination of land uses which might
                                                              normally be regarded as incompatible. The inclusion of
                                                              residential dwellings is allowed on sites of sufficient size to assure
                                                              adequate site development and a satisfactory and safe residential

     10000 Centennial Parkway    | S a nd y , U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   | p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   | f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   | s a n d y . u t a h . go v
Red Sky Apartments (Mixed Use Development) – CUP04272023-006525                                                                                            Page 3


 environment. Where residential uses are included, the objective of the mixed use concept is to create self-contained
 communities in which residents may walk to work, shopping and recreational facilities. This zone allows for mixed used
 development through the conditional use review permitting process.

 As there is already a mixed use master plan that has been adopted for this area in the form of the Cairns Master Plan and
 the South Village, staff will focus our review on compatibility of this proposal and with the mixed use development
 standards.


                                                           Village/Variety
  Sandy City Code (left)                                                        Proposed Project Analysis (right)

  A mixed use development must consist of more than just a collection of types of uses that are adjacent (vertically or
  horizontally) to one another. It requires that they be designed to function as a walkable village center providing a
  variety of housing, employment opportunities, goods and services that support the existing and proposed residents of a
  given area. A development that is focused on commercial retail and office uses that harmoniously integrates a
  residential element into the overall development scope to create a village center would be an appropriate application
  of a mixed use development.


  A mixed use development:
       “encourages a combination of land uses which might                      The proposal is not designed as one element within a
          normally be regarded as incompatible.” (Sec. 21-23-                   larger overall village center.
          24(a)(1))
       creates a self-sustaining, walkable village where                       The proposal shows “live/work units” that are not
          residents can “walk to work, to shopping, to                          designed to function as such as the spaces are shown
          recreational facilities, and have access to mass                      only as townhomes. Staff would like to see an
          transit.” (Sec. 21-23-24(a)(2))                                       alternative design of these units that fully meets the
       provides “a variety of housing opportunities and                        definitional standard of this use.
          choices that include a range of household types,
          family sizes, and incomes.” (Sec. 21-23-24(a)(2)).                    The project would provide new residential units to
          “Where size and scale permit, housing units shall                     help achieve the desired number of residential units in
          include a mix of housing types, housing size, and                     the area that has heavily office and retail, dining, and
          number of bedrooms, encouraging neighborhoods                         entertainment (RDE).
          with a mix of family cycles and incomes.” (Sec. 21-23-
          24(d)(1)b)                                                            This project would add housing to an area that lacks
       is “designed in a village manner.” (Sec. 21-37-14 (12),                 housing options.
          (Sec. 21-37-14 (14))




                                                         Village/Walkable
  Sandy City Code (left)                                                        Proposed Project Analysis (right)
  A mixed use development is required to function as a walkable village center, providing a mix of uses within close
  proximity, and uninterrupted pedestrian connections, thereby reducing traffic and parking impacts.




      10000 Centennial Parkway      | S a nd y , U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   | p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   | f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   | s a n d y . u t a h . go v
Red Sky Apartments (Mixed Use Development) – CUP04272023-006525                                                                                           Page 4



  A mixed use development:                                                     The proposal does integrate the critical massing of
       creates a self-sustaining, walkable village where                      physical and functional components as part of the
          residents can “walk to work, to shopping, to                         existing approved master plan for this area that
          recreational facilities, and have access to mass                     promotes walkability through uninterrupted
          transit.” (Sec. 21-23-24(a)(2))                                      pedestrian connections and reduces traffic and
       has “convenient pedestrian commercial services,                        parking impacts.
          employment opportunities.” (Sec. 21-23-24(a)(2))
       “integrates critical massing of physical and functional
          components into a coherent plan that promotes
          walkability through uninterrupted pedestrian
          connections, and reduces traffic and parking
          impacts.” (Sec. 21-37-14 (11))

  Mixed use developments “without the above walkable
  elements are unacceptable and will not be approved.” (Sec.
  21-23-24(a)(2))



                                         Master Planning and Coordination
  Sandy City Code (left)                                                       Proposed Project Analysis (right)

  A mixed use development requires coordination and master planning.


  To achieve a walkable development, the following are                         The proposal is consistent with the coordination and
  required to be coordinated with adjacent property owners                     master planning completed with surrounding
  (Sec. 21-23-24(d)):                                                          property owners and integrates into the surrounding
       appropriate land uses                                                  existing/future uses.
       pedestrian connections
       cross-easements
       common driveways
       no drive-thru windows

  A “walkable Mixed Use Master Plan . . . must show all phases
  of the development (including any phasing plans) and both
  existing and reasonable projected development on adjoining
  properties, determined through consultation with City staff
  and adjoining property owners.” (Sec. 21-23-24(e)(1)).

  A mixed use development:
       demonstrates “harmonious integration into the
          neighborhood” (Sec. 21-37-14 (10), 21-37-14 (13))
       “integrates critical massing of physical and functional
          components into a coherent plan that promotes
          walkability through uninterrupted pedestrian
          connections, and reduces traffic and parking
          impacts.” (Sec. 21-37-14 (11))




     10000 Centennial Parkway      | S a nd y , U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   | p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   | f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   | s a n d y . u t a h . go v
Red Sky Apartments (Mixed Use Development) – CUP04272023-006525                                                                                                Page 5


 Conditional Use Standards
 The City may impose conditions on conditional use based on certain standards of review found in section 21-33-04 of
 Sandy City Land Development Code. The following items from that list are applicable to this particular request and merit
 discussion or additional consideration by the Planning Commission (staff analysis is found below in italics):

Sec. 21-33-4. Conditions.
    In order to achieve compliance with the standards set forth herein, the City may impose conditions that address:
    (1)   Size, configuration and location of the site and the proposed site plan layout.
 While the site is small for a standalone mixed use development, it is part of a much larger mixed use master plan area that is
 suited for this type of development.
    (2)   Proposed site ingress and egress to existing and proposed roads and streets.
 Access would be from the two existing public streets (10080 South and Centennial Parkway).
    (3)   The adequacy, provision, relocation, or protection of public facilities and amenities, including roads and streets, culinary
          water, secondary water, sanitary sewer, storm drainage, public safety and fire protections, and other utilities.
 The existing utilities are of sufficient size to handle the proposed development. Improvements are shown in the plans to public
 right of way to improve walkability in the area.
    (4)   Design, location and amount of off-street parking, loading areas and solid waste disposal and collection areas.
 The plans show a two-level parking garage and new on-street parking that meets city code. The plans indicate satisfactory means
 of waste removal for the building.
    (5)   Site circulation patterns for vehicular, pedestrian and other traffic.
 The plans show improved sidewalks, crosswalks, and other urban amenities that will improve walkability in the area.
    (6)   Mass, size, number, location, design, exterior features, materials, and colors of buildings, structures and other facilities.
 The building is within proper scale and massing with surrounding buildings. The proposal is showing compliance with all other
 design code criteria.
    (8)    The provision of useable open space, public features, and recreational amenities.
 The site has access to the Promenade, which is an existing public open space in addition to private internal amenities. The plans
 do show that they have not met the standard for amenity space (15% of the gross residential square footage).
    (9)    Fencing, screening and landscape treatments, and other features designed to increase the attractiveness and safety of
           the site and protect adjoining property owners from noise, visual, and other impacts.
 The proposed landscape plan adequately addresses these elements.
    (10) Measures directed at minimizing or eliminating possible nuisance factors, including, but not limited to, noise, vibrations,
         smoke, dust, dirt, debris, plant materials, odors, gases, noxious matter, heat, glare, electromagnetic disturbances, and
         radiation.
 The developer should be responsible for the placement of a temporary 6-foot-high chain link fence around the perimeter of the
 project during the construction phase of the project for security and safety. Said fence shall also be required to include fabric to
 prohibit blowing dust problems, if it becomes necessary or if it is required by the Community Development Department during
 Site Plan Review.
    (15) Such other conditions determined reasonable and necessary by the City to allow the operation of the proposed
         conditional use, at the proposed location in compliance with the requirements of this title.



      10000 Centennial Parkway          | S a nd y , U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   | p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   | f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   | s a n d y . u t a h . go v
Red Sky Apartments (Mixed Use Development) – CUP04272023-006525                                                                                               Page 6


  The Mixed Use Development Standards found in Sec. 21-23-24 be applied to this property, along with the Cairn Design
  Standards to ensure that the development is designed in such a manner as to realize the objectives of a mixed use development.
  Staff Concerns
  Staff does not see how the current design of the proposed live/work units meet the definitional standard for this use type:

  Live/work units means mixed use development within a building, which incorporates retail commercial or
  individual offices on the ground level, residential use on upper levels, with direct access between uses
  and levels.

  We understand this space to be convertible, but the applicant has not shown how this could function as a live/work or
  fully a commercial space. They have only shown these units designed as an urban townhome.

Recommendation
  Staff recommends that the Planning Commission approve a Conditional Use Permit for a mixed use development in the
  CBD Zone for the Red Sky Apartments as described in the staff report for the property located at 10145 S. Centennial
  Pkwy. based on the following findings and subject to the following conditions:

Findings:
    1. The subject property is within the Cairns District and is part of the South Village master planned area as described
       within the Cairns Master Plan.

    2. The proposed development is generally consistent with the existing approved master plan for the area.

Conditions:
   1. That the Mixed Use Development Standards and Cairns Design Standards be applied to the subject property.

    2. That specific site conditions needed to mitigate adverse impacts and achieve the objectives of the General Plan that
       have been identified, be applied and imposed through the Site Plan review permit.

  Planner:




  Mike Wilcox
  Planning Director

File Name: S:\USERS\PLN\STAFFRPT\2023\CUP04272023-006525_RED SKY MIXED USE DEVELOPMENT\STAFF REPORT
- CUP.DOCX




       10000 Centennial Parkway        | S a nd y , U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   | p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   | f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   | s a n d y . u t a h . go v
