                                                                                              10000 South Centennial

                                        Sandy City                                            Parkway Suite 231
                                                                                              Sandy, UT 84070

                                       Council Office                                         O| 801-568-7141
                                                                                              Sandy.Utah.Gov




                                               MEMORANDUM

                                                March 21, 2023

To:                City Council Members

CC:                Monica Zoltanski, Mayor
                   Dustin Fratto, Council Executive Director
                   Shane Pace, CAO

From:              Brooke D’Sousa, Council Member At-large

Subject:           Second Reading: Survey Approval Team Proposal



On February 21st I came to the Council with a proposal to establish a Survey Approval Team (SAT) to help
ensure that both branches of government have equal opportunity to give input on informational surveys
before they are issued. The Council, Mayor, and staff all provided me with great feedback on my initial
proposal, and I’ve tried to incorporate as much of that feedback as possible into the Ordinance that I’m
presenting you with this evening.

Ordinance 23-06 adds a new chapter to the Sandy Legislative Code. In this new chapter I’ve done the
following:

      A. Defined informational surveys and classified three types of surveys: City Surveys, Executive
         Surveys, and Legislative Surveys. To find out which category your proposed survey falls within
         you simply ask yourself two questions:

          Question 1: Who will this survey be issued on behalf of (Sandy City, the Mayor, a department, or
          the City Council)? If the survey is issued on behalf of “Sandy City,” then it is a City Survey. If it
          issued on behalf of the Council, Mayor, or a department then then a second question must be
          asked.

          Question 2: What is my intention for the results of this survey? If your intention, in-part or sole,
          is to use the results to influence a legislative decision, then your survey is a Legislative Survey. If
          your sole intention is to use the results to influence an administrative decision, then your survey
          is an Executive Survey.

      B. Prescribed who can draft informational surveys. Regardless of their type, surveys may be
         drafted by the Mayor’s office, the Council, appointees of either, or by any combination thereof.

      C. Prescribed who approves each type of survey. City Surveys are approved by a simple majority of
         the Survey Approval Team, Executive surveys are approved by the Mayor, and Legislative
         Surveys are approved by a simple majority of the Council OR the Survey Approval Team.
    D. Organized a Survey Approval Team made up of the Mayor, an executive staff member, a Council
       Member, and a legislative staff member.

Items my proposal does not address:

    A. Appointment process and term lengths for members of the SAT. The Mayor and Council can
       both address the term length of their appointees at the time of their appointment. The Mayor
       can address her own appointment process as she sees fit. The Council may or may not elect to
       adopt a Council Policy describing its own appointment process.

    B. Survey approval process and timeline. As surveys will undoubtedly come forward from both the
       executive and legislative branches of the City, it is in the best interest of both to establish a
       process that works for everyone. The initial survey approval team should create a process that
       will work for them.



In conclusion, tonight I’m looking for the Council to take action and adopt Ordinance 23-06 as written
and attached to this agenda item.
