                                         S ANDY C I T Y C O M M U N I T Y D E V E L O P M E N T
                                                                                                                                         JAMES SORENSEN
                                                                                                                                      COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
                                                                                                                                            DIRECTOR

                                                                                                                                           MONICA ZOLTANSKI
                                                                                                                                               MAYOR

                                                                                                                                         SHANE E. PACE
                                                                                                                                 CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER




                                Staff Report Memorandum
                                                          April 20, 2023


To:              Planning Commission
From:            Community Development Department
Subject:         Interpretation of the term “Mixed Use Development”                                                          MSC03202023-006505



Re q u e st
  The Community Development Director, James Sorensen, is requesting the Planning Commission provide the
  interpretation of the term “mixed use development” as applied in the context of a conditional use permit application on a
  property located at 10165 South 1300 East. The application is to seek review and approval of a mixed use development for
  this site. This property is zoned Neighborhood Commercial
  (CN) which generally allows only commercial uses, but also
  allows for a mixed use development as a conditional use.
  The key determination to be made is whether this proposal
  qualifies as a mixed use project under the Sandy City Code.
   If not, the use is not allowed in this zone or at this location.
  If yes, then the applicant will proceed with their conditional
  use application.

Ba c kg ro u n d
  Staff received a conditional use permit application which the
  application materials are provided in Exhibit “A” (see
  attachment for full details). It seeks review and approval of a
  mixed use development land use in the Neighborhood
  Commercial (CN) zone district from Wade Budge of Snell
  & Wilmer, LLP (applicant) which is representing the
  property owner Magna Investment & Development, LTD.

  This property is surrounded by professional and medical
  office buildings to the east and the Salt Lake County Public
  Library to the north (zoned SD(PO/R), Professional Office
  subdistrict). To the south is the Alta View retail shopping
  center (zoned Community Commercial (CC)). The
  Eastmont Middle School (zoned R-1-8) is located to the
  west of the property.

    10000 Centennial P arkway      | S a n d y, U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   |   p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   |   f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8    |   s a n d y . u t a h . g ov
Interpretation of the term “Mixed Use Development” – MSC03202023-006505                                                                                     Page 2


Pu b lic No tic e a n d O u tre a c h
  This item has not been noticed to any property owners or to the property since the request for interpretation is not
  property specific and notice is not required. For future applications requiring notice, all requirements will be followed.

  Likewise, a neighborhood meeting has not been held but will be prior to any future Planning Commission reviews of
  property specific requests on the referenced property.

An a ly sis
  Staff members have had multiple conversations with the applicant regarding the type of development that would meet the
  definition of mixed use. We’ve seen several iterative plans that partially addressed the code requirements, but never fully
  incorporated a true mixed use development proposal. The applicant made a complete submittal of all required materials
  for a conditional use application recently. While reviewing the application, staff continued to have concerns that the
  proposed development did not meet the definitional standard of “mixed use development” as outlined in the Land
  Development Code. The Director has called upon the Planning Commission to provide a final interpretation on the term
  “mixed use development”, in accordance with the interpretive authority given to the Planning Commission as per section
  21-1-6 of the Land Development Code, prior to proceeding with the review of their conditional use permit application.

  To assist the Planning Commission in making this determination, staff has highlighted a few areas of the Land
  Development Code that help define and describe the composition of a mixed use development. The following are the
  definitions of the related terms found in section 21-37-14(10-14):

Sec. 21-37-14. - "M" Definitions.

(10)     Mixed use, commercial and residential development, means a development consisting of a mixture of
         residential and commercial uses with an approved ratio, developed according to a master site plan. The
         development of the uses is of sufficient size and physical improvement to protect surrounding areas and
         the general community, and to ensure a harmonious integration into the neighborhood.

(11)     Mixed use development means a development project that includes residential and one or more of the
         following land uses: retail, service, commercial, or office; and which, vertically or horizontally, integrates
         critical massing of physical and functional components into a coherent plan that promotes walkability
         through uninterrupted pedestrian connections, and reduces traffic and parking impacts.

(12)     Mixed use, horizontal, means commercial and residential uses, etc., which are in close proximity to each
         other and designed in a village manner, but not necessarily within the same building structures.

(13)     Mixed use, residential and office use, means a development consisting of a mixture of residential and office
         uses with an approved ratio, developed according to a master site plan. The development of the uses is of
         sufficient size and physical improvement to protect surrounding areas and the general community, and to
         ensure a harmonious integration into the neighborhood.

(14)     Mixed use, vertical, means commercial, office, or residential uses, etc., designed in a village manner which
         are within close proximity to each other within the same building structure.

  The land development code contemplates a variety of different types and configurations of a mixed use development
  (horizontal, vertical, etc.) through these various definitions, but there are commonalities among them and the same

       10000 Centennial P arkway   | S a n d y, U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   |   p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   |   f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   |   s a n d y . u t a h . g ov
Interpretation of the term “Mixed Use Development” – MSC03202023-006505                                                                                     Page 3


 requirements for each mixed use development that are found in Section 21-23-24. If a conditional use permit for a mixed
 use development is approved on the property, the code requirements for a mixed use development are applied to the
 property similar to an overlay zone. The additional regulations specific to a mixed use land use must be met in addition to
 the base zone requirements. They are essential to ensure that a mixed use development is realized. These requirements can
 be summarized in three categories: Village/Variety, Village/Walkable, and Master Planning/Coordination. Staff has
 analyzed these code requirements to the applicant’s proposal. Based on these criteria, staff finds that this proposal does not
 qualify as a mixed use development. This analysis is summarized in the tables below:


                                                          Village/Variety
  Sandy City Code (left)                                                         Proposed Project Analysis (right)

  A mixed use development must consist of more than just a collection of types of uses that are adjacent (vertically or
  horizontally) to one another. It requires that they be designed to function as a walkable village center providing a
  variety of housing, employment opportunities, goods and services that support the existing and proposed residents of a
  given area. A development that is focused on commercial retail and office uses that harmoniously integrates a
  residential element into the overall development scope to create a village center would be an appropriate application
  of a mixed use development.


  A mixed use development:
      • “encourages a combination of land uses which might                       The proposal is not designed in a village manner.
          normally be regarded as incompatible.” (Sec. 21-23-
          24(a)(1))                                                              The proposal shows “live/work units” that are not
      • creates a self-sustaining, walkable village where                        designed to function as such as the spaces are
          residents can “walk to work, to shopping, to                           disconnected. The amount of area designated for
          recreational facilities, and have access to mass                       “work” within these buildings is too small to function
          transit.” (Sec. 21-23-24(a)(2))                                        as standalone office space and will likely be utilized
      • provides “a variety of housing opportunities and                         for storage and maintenance spaces.
          choices that include a range of household types,
          family sizes, and incomes.” (Sec. 21-23-24(a)(2)).                     The amount of proposed retail uses represents 6% of
          “Where size and scale permit, housing units shall                      the overall building square footage (not including the
          include a mix of housing types, housing size, and                      structured parking areas).
          number of bedrooms, encouraging neighborhoods
          with a mix of family cycles and incomes.” (Sec. 21-23-                 The amount of live/work “office” space represents 1%
          24(d)(1)b)                                                             of the overall building square footage (not including
      • is “designed in a village manner.” (Sec. 21-37-14 (12),                  the structured parking areas).
          (Sec. 21-37-14 (14))
                                                                                 The proposal does not include a range of housing
                                                                                 types.



                                                        Village/Walkable
  Sandy City Code (left)                                                         Proposed Project Analysis (right)
  A mixed use development is required to function as a walkable village center, providing a mix of uses within close
  proximity, and uninterrupted pedestrian connections, thereby reducing traffic and parking impacts.




    10000 Centennial P arkway      | S a n d y, U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   |   p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   |   f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   |   s a n d y . u t a h . g ov
Interpretation of the term “Mixed Use Development” – MSC03202023-006505                                                                                   Page 4



  A mixed use development:                                                     The proposal does not integrate critical massing of
      • creates a self-sustaining, walkable village where                      physical and functional components into a coherent
          residents can “walk to work, to shopping, to                         plan that promotes walkability through uninterrupted
          recreational facilities, and have access to mass                     pedestrian connections and reduces traffic and
          transit.” (Sec. 21-23-24(a)(2))                                      parking impacts.
      • has “convenient pedestrian commercial services,
          employment opportunities.” (Sec. 21-23-24(a)(2))
      • “integrates critical massing of physical and functional
          components into a coherent plan that promotes
          walkability through uninterrupted pedestrian
          connections, and reduces traffic and parking
          impacts.” (Sec. 21-37-14 (11))

  Mixed use developments “without the above walkable
  elements are unacceptable and will not be approved.” (Sec.
  21-23-24(a)(2))



                                      Master Planning and Coordination
  Sandy City Code (left)                                                       Proposed Project Analysis (right)

  A mixed use development requires coordination and master planning.


  To achieve a walkable development, the following are                         The proposal does not demonstrate coordination and
  required to be coordinated with adjacent property owners                     master planning with surrounding property owners or
  (Sec. 21-23-24(d)):                                                          integrate surrounding existing/future uses.
      • appropriate land uses
      • pedestrian connections
      • cross-easements
      • common driveways
      • no drive-thru windows

  A “walkable Mixed Use Master Plan . . . must show all phases
  of the development (including any phasing plans) and both
  existing and reasonable projected development on adjoining
  properties, determined through consultation with City staff
  and adjoining property owners.” (Sec. 21-23-24(e)(1)).

  A mixed use development:
      • demonstrates “harmonious integration into the
          neighborhood” (Sec. 21-37-14 (10), 21-37-14 (13))
      • “integrates critical massing of physical and functional
          components into a coherent plan that promotes
          walkability through uninterrupted pedestrian
          connections, and reduces traffic and parking
          impacts.” (Sec. 21-37-14 (11))




    10000 Centennial P arkway    | S a n d y, U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   |   p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   |   f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   |   s a n d y . u t a h . g ov
Interpretation of the term “Mixed Use Development” – MSC03202023-006505                                                                                      Page 5


  Staff Concerns
  As described in the tables above, the design proposed by the applicant fails at creating a mixed use development on many
  levels. The proposal mostly consists of apartments, which are defined in the code as “multiple unit dwellings”. This land
  use is not permitted in the Neighborhood Commercial (CN) zone. The proposal does not include enough other non-
  residential elements, nor are they designed in a manner that creates a walkable mixed use village as described in the land
  development code. In other words, the project appears to have been designed as an apartment project without much
  regard to the other required elements of a mixed use development. Staff would suggest a master-planned development that
  is focused on commercial retail and office uses (which are permitted in the zone) that harmoniously integrates a residential
  element into the overall development scope to create a walkable village center would meet the definitional standard of a
  mixed use development.

Re c o m m e n d a tio n
  Staff recommends that the Planning Commission determine that this request does not meet the definitional standard of a
  “Mixed Use Development” as outlined in the Land Development Code based on the following findings:

Findings:
   1. A mixed use development must consist of more than just a collection of types of uses that are adjacent (vertically or
       horizontally) to one another. It requires that they be designed to function as a walkable village center providing a
       variety of housing, employment opportunities, goods and services that support the existing and proposed residents
       of a given area. The proposal does not meet this requirement.

    2. A mixed use development is required to function as a walkable village center, providing a mix of uses within close
       proximity, and uninterrupted pedestrian connections, thereby reducing traffic and parking impacts. The proposal
       does not meet this requirement.

    3. A mixed use development requires coordination and master planning to successfully create a walkable community.
       The proposal does not meet this requirement.

    4. The development proposal does not meet the definition of a “Mixed Use Development” as found in section 21-37-
       14(10-14).
           a. The proposal shows that there has been no effort to coordinate and master plan with surrounding property
              owners and integrate those existing uses or future development. After evaluating this proposal within its
              development area only, and not including the surrounding existing properties and uses, the Planning
              Commission finds there is not a sufficient mix of uses.
           b. The proposal is not of sufficient size and physical improvement to protect surrounding areas and the
              general community, and to ensure a harmonious integration into the neighborhood.
           c. The proposal does not integrate critical massing of physical and functional components into a coherent plan
              that promotes walkability through uninterrupted pedestrian connections and reduces traffic and parking
              impacts.
           d. The proposal is not designed in a walkable village manner.
           e. The proposal shows “live/work units” that are not designed to function as such because the spaces are
              disconnected. The amount of area designated for “work” within these buildings is too small to function as
              standalone office space and will likely be utilized for storage and maintenance spaces.
           f. The amount of proposed retail uses represents only 6% of the overall building square footage (not including
              the structured parking areas).
           g. The amount of live/work “office” space represents only 1% of the overall building square footage (not

     10000 Centennial P arkway      | S a n d y, U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   |   p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   |   f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   |   s a n d y . u t a h . g ov
Interpretation of the term “Mixed Use Development” – MSC03202023-006505                                                                                    Page 6


               including the structured parking areas).

   5. This development proposal is focused on creating a multi-unit dwelling development, which is a use that is not
      permitted as a standalone use in the CN Zone and does not provide sufficient office/retail elements to achieve a
      mixed use development.

   6. A development that is focused on commercial retail and office uses that harmoniously integrates a residential
      element into the overall development scope to create a village center would be an appropriate application of a mixed
      use development.

 Planner:




 Mike Wilcox
 Planning Director

File Name: S:\USERS\PLN\STAFFRPT\2023\MSC03202023-006505 - MIXED USE INTERPRETATION\STAFF REPORT.DOCX




    10000 Centennial P arkway     | S a n d y, U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   |   p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   |   f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   |   s a n d y . u t a h . g ov
Interpretation of the term “Mixed Use Development” – MSC03202023-006505                                                                                  Page 7


                            Exhibit “A” – See the attached file for full information.




    10000 Centennial P arkway   | S a n d y, U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   |   p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   |   f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   |   s a n d y . u t a h . g ov
