                                                      S ANDY CITY C O M M UN IT Y D E V EL O P ME N T
                                                                                                                                                      JAMES SORENSEN
                                                                                                                                                   COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
                                                                                                                                                         DIRECTOR

                                                                                                                                                        MONICA ZOLTANSKI
                                                                                                                                                            MAYOR

                                                                                                                                                        SHANE E. PACE
                                                                                                                                                     CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE
                                                                                                                                                            OFFICER



                                            Staff Report Memorandum
                                                                       July 20, 2023


 To:                   City Council via Planning Commission
 From:                 Community Development Department
 Subject:              Amendments to Title 21 of the Land Development Code                                                                  CA06282023-0006555
                       related to Sports Venue Sign Themes


 Public Hearing Notice: This item has been noticed on public websites, sent to affected entities and
                                                posted in three public locations at least 10 days prior to the Public Hearing.


Request
 Tracy Baker with Allied Electric Sign and Awning (representing
 Real Salt Lake) has applied to amend Title 21, Land Development
 Code, Chapter 26, Signage and Outdoor Advertising, Section 10,
 Sign Themes and Special Zones, Subsection (c), Signs on Major
 Sports Venues; and Sec. 21-37-20 "S" Definitions. The purpose of
 the code amendments is to update the sign theme standards for
 major sports venues. The proposed code changes would
 effectively allow for more signage within and around the America
 First Field (formerly known as Rio Tinto Stadium) located at
 9256 S. State St., that is consistent with current conditions and
 industry standards. The development code has not kept up with
 existing signage and industry practice for major sports venues.
 This would also bring several existing signs into legal conformity.

Background
 In 2009, the City adopted regulations for sign themes at major
 sports venues, and the Planning Commission approved an
 overall sign theme for the sports stadium. Since that time, there
 have been several amendments to the sports stadium sign theme
 and code amendments related to sports field fencing signs. To
 ensure consistency with existing conditions and industry
 standards, the applicant is proposing to amend the sign theme regulations for major sports venues, as well as update the
 overall sign theme at the America First Sports Stadium (see concurrent application under SGN06282023-031053).


   1 0 0 0 0 C e n t e n n i a l Pa r k w a y   | S a n d y, U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   |   p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   |   f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8    |   s a n d y . u t a h . g ov
Amendments Related to Sports Venue Sign Theme – CA06282023-0006555                                                                                                        Page 2

 Relevant case history of code amendments is provided in the following table:

                                                                        Case History
       Case Number                                                                              Case Summary
       Ord. No. 09-03,
                                                   Code Amendment to regulate for major sports venues (Feb. 2009).
          CA#09-A
        Ord. No. 11-22                             Code Amendment to the regulations for Signs on Major Sports Venues to define
       CODE-8-11-1977                              sports field fencing signs and to add regulations of such signs (Nov. 2011).
        Ord. No. 14-14                             Code Amendment to the regulations for Signs on Major Sports Venues to add
       CODE-4-14-3552                              regulations for on-site fencing signs (June 2014).

Public Notice
 The city issued notice of the public hearing for the proposed code amendments on public websites, mailed notice to affected
 entities and posted in three public locations at least 10 days prior to the Planning Commission public hearing in accordance
 with the Land Development Code Sec. 21-36-1 and the Utah State Code § 10-9a-205.

Analysis
 The proposed code amendments update the sign theme standards for major sports venues. These code changes allow for
 more signage within and around the America First Field, consistent with current conditions and industry standards. The
 specific amendments to the Land Development Code are included as Exhibit “A” (red-lined version) and Exhibit “B” (clean
 version).

 The following is a summary of the proposed changes to Title 21. Example images of sign types are included as Exhibit “C.”
  1. Allows changeable copy in wall signs.
  2. Allows individual lettering roof signs.
  3. Removes content requirements for signs because it is unlawful to regulate content.
  4. Removes definition language to avoid duplication with the definitions chapter of the code.
  5. Interior stadium signs:
           a. Allows an unlimited number of signs within the interior of the stadium.
           b. Allows wall signs above the wall face by four feet.
           c. Removes the number and size limitation of non-changeable copy signs on the scoreboard.
           d. Allows half of a non-changeable copy sign with individual lettering above the scoreboard fascia.
           e. Removes the size limitation on blade signs,
           f. Removes the number and size limitation on grandstand signs and allows double-faced grandstand signs.
  6. Exterior stadium signs:
           a. Removes some of the location criteria for sponsorship scrim panels.
           b. Wall signs:
                 i.    Allows wall signs to be placed above the wall fascia.
                ii.    Allows wall signs to have up to 2% of changeable copy.
              iii.     Limits walls signs to 30% of the total wall face square footage.
               iv.     Establishes that roof, blade, and grandstand signs count towards the allowable amount of wall signage.
           c. Allows non-changeable copy signs on the entire exterior face of the scoreboard.
           d. Removes the number and size limitation on blade signs.
           e. Removes the number, size, and location limitations for on-site fencing signs.
           f. Allows banners on streets, plazas, and stairways in addition to the parking lot areas.
           g. Freestanding signs:
               i.     Allows staff to approve freestanding signs by removing the need for Planning Commission approval.

      1 0 0 0 0 C e n t e n n i a l Pa r k w a y   | S a n d y, U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   |   p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   |   f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   |   s a n d y . u t a h . g ov
Amendments Related to Sports Venue Sign Theme – CA06282023-0006555                                                                                                        Page 3

           ii.    Allows up to 10 directional signs within the interior road system, in addition to the street frontage signs.
   7. Amends definitions to allow changeable copy on “field board” signs and double-face signs on “grandstand” signs.

Non-Conforming Uses
 This code amendment would not create any non-conforming situations but would resolve some existing ones.

Land Development Code Purpose Compliance
 The Sandy City Land Development Code in 21-1-3 lists the criteria explaining the intent and purpose of the Ordinance.
 The purpose is:
       21-1-3 Purpose
       This Code is adopted to implement Sandy City’s General Plan and to promote public health, safety, convenience,
       aesthetics, welfare; efficient use of land; sustainable land use and building practices; transportation options and
       accessibility; crime prevention; timely citizen involvement in land use decision making; and efficiency in development
       review and land use administration. Specifically, this Code is established to promote the following purposes:
       1. General
          a. To facilitate the orderly growth and development of Sandy City.
          b. To facilitate adequate provision for transportation, water, sewage, schools, parks, and other public
             requirements.
          c. To stabilize property values.
          d. To enhance the economic well-being of Sandy City and its inhabitants.
       2. Implementation of General Plan
          To coordinate and ensure the implementation of the City’s General Plan through effective execution of
          development review requirements, adequate facility and services review and other goals, policies, or programs
          contained in the General Plan.
       3. Comprehensive, Consistent and Equitable Regulations
          To establish a system of fair, comprehensive, consistent and equitable regulations, standards and procedures for
          review and approval of all proposed land development within the City.
       4. Efficiently and Effectively Managed Procedures
          a. To promote fair procedures that are efficient and effective in terms of time and expense.
          b. To be effective and responsive in terms of the allocation of authority and delegation of powers and duties
               among ministerial, appointed, and elected officials.
          c. To foster a positive customer service attitude and to respect the rights of all applicants and affected citizens.

 The proposed code amendment is consistent with the purpose of the Land Development Code because the proposal
 promotes the public health, safety, and welfare; ensures consistency and equitable standards; establishes efficiency in
 development review and land use administration; and is consistent with the Sandy City General Plan.

General Plan Compliance
 The Sandy City General Plan encourages appropriate development standards for all uses and zoning categories within the
 city. The proposed code amendment furthers that goal and objective by establishing appropriate land development standards
 for all uses and zoning categories within Sandy City.

Recommendation
 Staff recommends that the Planning Commission forward a positive recommendation to the City Council to amend Title
 21, of the Sandy Municipal Code, related to the sign theme standards for major sports venues, as shown in Exhibit “A”,
      1 0 0 0 0 C e n t e n n i a l Pa r k w a y   | S a n d y, U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   |   p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   |   f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   |   s a n d y . u t a h . g ov
Amendments Related to Sports Venue Sign Theme – CA06282023-0006555                                                                                                        Page 4

 based on the following findings:

Findings:
    1. The City Council may amend land use ordinances consistent with the purposes of the Sandy Land Development
       Code, the Sandy City General Plan, and the Utah Code, Municipal Land Use, Development, and Management Act
       per Title 21 Chapter 5 of the Sandy Municipal Code.
   2. The proposal is reviewed by the Planning Commission and City Council in accordance with the requirements of Title
      21 Chapter 5 of the Sandy Municipal Code.
   3. The proposal complies with the purpose of the Land Development Code under Section 21-1-03 by creating consistent
      and equitable standards and procedures for review and approval of all new development projects within Sandy City.
   4. The proposal complies with the Goals and Policies of the General Plan by establishing appropriate development
      standards for all uses and zoning categories within Sandy City.

 Planner:




 Melissa Anderson
 Zoning Administrator

 Exhibits:
    A. Proposed code amendments (red-lined version)
    B. Proposed code amendments (clean version)
    C. Example images of sign types


 File Name: \\FSUSERS\CH-USERS\USERS\PLN\STAFFRPT\2023\CA06282023-0006555 SPORTS VENUE SIGN THEME\STAFF REPORT\STAFF REPORT -
 SPORTS VENUE SIGN THEME.FINAL.DOCX




      1 0 0 0 0 C e n t e n n i a l Pa r k w a y   | S a n d y, U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   |   p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   |   f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   |   s a n d y . u t a h . g ov
                                                   Exhibit “A”


Sec. 21-26-10. Sign Themes and Special Zones.
…
(c)   Signs on Major Sports Venues.
      (1)   All major sports venues must submit a proposal for an overall sign theme showing design concepts and
            approximate placement of all on-premises signs. This sign theme may be approved if the Planning
            Commission can determine that:
            a.   The proposed signs are not in conflict with the purpose and intent of this chapter, and consistent
                 with the General Plan;
            b.   The proposed signs and sign locations are consistent compatible with the architecture of the
                 development; and
            c.   The proposed signs appropriately utilize those the elements listed in the design criteria of this
                 chapter.
      (2)   The proposed sign theme may include the following:
            a.   A combination of cabinet and individual lettering signs. is allowed. Changeable copy may be
                 incorporated into approved wall signs.
            b.   The use of individual lettering roof signs if they are mounted to the top of the exterior parapet
                 wall and compatible with the architecture of the development.
      (3)   Signs permitted on major sports venues may include the following:
            a.   Interior Stadium Signs. Those signs designed to be viewed by spectators and visitors to the sports
                 venue and only incidentally seen from the exterior or areas accessible by non-paying visitors.
                 Interior signs may include:, but are not limited to sponsorship scrim panel signs, wall signs, blade
                 signs, grandstand signs, scoreboard signs, field boards, murals, posters, flags, banners, and
                 wayfinding signs. The number or size of these signs shall not be limited, except as described
                 below:
                 1.    Sponsorship scrim panel signs: to be located between the seating structure and the canopy
                       of the stadium.May be any color and show a sponsor message or company logo. Limited to
                       20 sign
                 2.    Wall signs: may be of channel letter or cabinet design. Signs will not be allowed on the
                       fascia above the seating levels in the area below the canopy. these signs are allowed above
                       the wall fascia by no more than four feet.
                 3.    Blade signs: to be located upon pedestrian corridors within the venue. M must be at least
                       eight feet above the walking surface. and no greater than ten inches wide by eight feet
                       high.
                 4.    Grandstand signs: single-face signs that are only directed toward the interior of the
                       stadium must either be hidden from exterior view or be architecturally compatible with the
                       structure when viewed from the exterior. Limited to four signs and 360 square feet total.
                 5.    Scoreboard sign: includes changeable copy typically used for scores, game updates and
                       replays located on a structure facing the playing field. It may also include no more than five
                       permanent, non-changeable copy signs not exceeding 1200 square feet. must be located
                       on a structure facing the playing field. It may also include permanent, non-changeable copy
                       signs. Permanent non-changeable copy signs with individual lettering may be placed above
                       the scoreboard fascia by up to 50 percent of the sign itself.




                                                     Page 1 of 3
                                         Exhibit “A”

     6.    Field boards: are allowed around the entire perimeter of the field.located upon edge of the
           playing field.
b.   Exterior Stadium Signs. Those signs, designed to be viewed from the exterior of the building.
     Exterior signs may include:
     1.    Sponsorship scrim panel signs: tomay be located between the seating structure and the
           canopy of the stadium or exterior of scoreboard structure. One sponsorship scrim
           panelThese signs may also be located on the southwest corner of the canopy structure and
           which may not be higher than the interior scrim signs. It is prohibited to install any
           sponsorship scrim panel signs on the west side of the stadium. May include a sponsor logo
           and name only on a neutral-colored background that complements the architecture of the
           venue or a naming rights sign. Limited to 20 signs.
     2.    Wall signs: may show naming rights or guide and directional signs. Limited to 20 total signs.
           must be mounted to wall fascia. These signs are allowed above the wall. The amount of
           signs is limited to 30 percent of the total exterior wall face square footage. Changeable
           copy signs may be incorporated into two percent of the total wall signage.
     3.    Roof Signs: as regulated in the Section above, may be used in combination with wall signs
           and are counted towards the allowable amount of wall signage.
     4.    Scoreboard signs: that are viewable from the exterior may include permanent, non-
           changeable copy signs not exceeding 100 percent of the total square footage of the
           scoreboard. The scoreboard signs do not count towards the allowable amount of wall
           signage.
     35.   Blade signs: to be located above pedestrian areas on the exterior of the venue. M must be
           at least eight feet above the walking surface. and no greater than two feet wide by 20 feet
           high. Limited to 12 signs. These signs may be used in combination with wall signs and are
           counted towards the allowable amount of wall signage.
     46.   Grandstand signs: limited to four signs and 360 square feet total. signs that are intended to
           be viewed outside the stadium. They must back up to an interior grandstand sign. These
           signs may be used in combination with wall signs and are counted towards the allowable
           amount of wall signage.
     57.   On-premises freestanding signs: the Planning Commission may approve up to one sign per
           street frontage. The signs are is limited to 30 feet in height and 100 square feet in sign face
           area. Up to 10 directional signs within the internal road system is limited to 15 feet in
           height and 100 square feet in sign face area.
     68.   Parking lot banners: Banners: are allowed in all private parking lots, streets, plazas, and
           stairways, and must comply with existing banner regulations.
     79.   On-site fencing signs: a maximum of two single faced signs permanently attached to the
           fence surrounding the parking lot south of the stadium are allowed, provided they comply
           with the following provisions: can be complied with:
           (i)     The proposed sign is not in conflict with the purpose and intent of this chapter, and:
           (ii)    The fence is not located on a property line.
           (iii)   The proposed sign shall not be on any fencing that is located adjacent to, or within
                   100 feet of, any public street.
           (iv)    The proposed sign shall not exceed four feet in height.
           (v)     The proposed signage copy shall not occupy more than 15 percent of the total floor
                   area of the fence that is covered.



                                          Page 2 of 3
                                                    Exhibit “A”

                        (vi)   The sign shall be made from a vinyl mesh material.
(d)   Sports Field Fencing Signs. All applications for sports field fencing signs within a private park, which park is
      associated with a major sports venue, shall be reviewed by the Planning Commission, which shall determine
      the following:
      (1)   The proposed signs are not in conflict with the purpose and intent of this chapter, and are consistent
            with the General Plan, and:
      (2)   The proposed signs appropriately utilize those elements listed in the design criteria of this chapter.
      (3)   The proposed signs shall not be on any fencing that is located adjacent to, or within 50 feet of, any
            public street.
      (4)   The proposed signs shall not exceed six feet in height, or the height of the fence, whichever is lower,
            and shall be permissible only on the field side of the fence.
      (5)   The proposed signage shall not occupy more than 50 percent of the total length of the fence line
            surrounding the sports field.
      (6)   Either one six-foot-tall evergreen or one 1½-inch caliper deciduous tree shall be planted on the site for
            every 150 lineal feet of fencing which contains a sports field fence sign.
      (7)   The sign shall be made from a vinyl mesh material.




Sec. 21-37-20. "S" Definitions.
…
(44) Sign, field boards, means non-illuminated, static graphics on a portable hard surface portable signs that are
     inside a major sports venue. Changeable copy is allowed.
…
(52) Sign, grandstand, means single-face signs that are attached to fixed seats.




                                                      Page 3 of 3
                                                   Exhibit “B”


Sec. 21-26-10. Sign Themes and Special Zones.
…
(c)   Signs on Major Sports Venues.
      (1)   All major sports venues must submit a proposal for an overall sign theme showing design concepts and
            approximate placement of signs. This sign theme may be approved if the Planning Commission can
            determine that:
            a.   The proposed signs are not in conflict with the purpose and intent of this chapter, and consistent
                 with the General Plan;
            b.   The proposed signs and sign locations are compatible with the architecture of the development;
                 and
            c.   The proposed signs appropriately utilize the elements listed in the design criteria of this chapter.
      (2)   The proposed sign theme may include the following:
            a.   A combination of cabinet and individual lettering signs. Changeable copy may be incorporated
                 into approved wall signs.
            b.   The use of individual lettering roof signs if they are mounted to the top of the exterior parapet
                 wall and compatible with the architecture of the development.
      (3)   Signs permitted on major sports venues may include the following:
            a.   Interior Stadium Signs. Those signs designed to be viewed by spectators and visitors to the sports
                 venue and only incidentally seen from the exterior or areas accessible by non-paying visitors.
                 Interior signs may include, but are not limited to sponsorship scrim panel signs, wall signs, blade
                 signs, grandstand signs, scoreboard signs, field boards, murals, posters, flags, banners, and
                 wayfinding signs. The number or size of these signs shall not be limited, except as described
                 below:
                 1.    Sponsorship scrim panel signs: to be located between the seating structure and the canopy
                       of the stadium.
                 2.    Wall signs: these signs are allowed above the wall fascia by no more than four feet.
                 3.    Blade signs: to be located upon pedestrian corridors within the venue must be at least
                       eight feet above the walking surface.
                 4.    Grandstand signs: signs that are only directed toward the interior of the stadium must
                       either be hidden from exterior view or be architecturally compatible with the structure
                       when viewed from the exterior.
                 5.    Scoreboard sign: must be located on a structure facing the playing field. It may also include
                       permanent, non-changeable copy signs. Permanent non-changeable copy signs with
                       individual lettering may be placed above the scoreboard fascia by up to 50 percent of the
                       sign itself.
                 6.    Field boards: are allowed around the entire perimeter of the field.
            b.   Exterior Stadium Signs. Those signs, designed to be viewed from the exterior of the building.
                 Exterior signs may include:
                 1.    Sponsorship scrim panel signs: may be located between the seating structure and the
                       canopy of the stadium or exterior of scoreboard structure. These signs may also be located
                       on the southwest corner of the canopy structure and may not be higher than the interior
                       scrim signs. Limited to 20 signs.



                                                     Page 1 of 3
                                                      Exhibit “B”

                  2.    Wall signs: must be mounted to wall fascia. These signs are allowed above the wall. The
                        amount of signs is limited to 30 percent of the total exterior wall face square footage.
                        Changeable copy signs may be incorporated into two percent of the total wall signage.
                  3.    Roof Signs: as regulated in the Section above, may be used in combination with wall signs
                        and are counted towards the allowable amount of wall signage.
                  4.    Scoreboard signs: that are viewable from the exterior may include permanent, non-
                        changeable copy signs not exceeding 100 percent of the total square footage of the
                        scoreboard. The scoreboard signs do not count towards the allowable amount of wall
                        signage.
                  5.    Blade signs: to be located above pedestrian areas on the exterior of the venue must be at
                        least eight feet above the walking surface. These signs may be used in combination with
                        wall signs and are counted towards the allowable amount of wall signage.
                  6.    Grandstand signs: signs that are intended to be viewed outside the stadium. They must
                        back up to an interior grandstand sign. These signs may be used in combination with wall
                        signs and are counted towards the allowable amount of wall signage.
                  7.    On-premises freestanding signs: one sign per street frontage is limited to 30 feet in height
                        and 100 square feet in sign face area. Up to 10 directional signs within the internal road
                        system is limited to 15 feet in height and 100 square feet in sign face area.
                  8.    Banners: are allowed in all private parking lots, streets, plazas, and stairways, and must
                        comply with existing banner regulations.
                  9.    On-site fencing signs: single faced signs attached to the fence surrounding the parking lot
                        south of the stadium are allowed, provided they comply with the following provisions:
                        (i)     The proposed sign is not in conflict with the purpose and intent of this chapter, and:
                        (ii)    The fence is not located on a property line.
                        (iii)   The proposed sign shall not exceed four feet in height.
(d)   Sports Field Fencing Signs. All applications for sports field fencing signs within a private park, which park is
      associated with a major sports venue, shall be reviewed by the Planning Commission, which shall determine
      the following:
      (1)   The proposed signs are not in conflict with the purpose and intent of this chapter, and are consistent
            with the General Plan, and:
      (2)   The proposed signs appropriately utilize those elements listed in the design criteria of this chapter.
      (3)   The proposed signs shall not be on any fencing that is located adjacent to, or within 50 feet of, any
            public street.
      (4)   The proposed signs shall not exceed six feet in height, or the height of the fence, whichever is lower,
            and shall be permissible only on the field side of the fence.
      (5)   The proposed signage shall not occupy more than 50 percent of the total length of the fence line
            surrounding the sports field.
      (6)   Either one six-foot-tall evergreen or one 1½-inch caliper deciduous tree shall be planted on the site for
            every 150 lineal feet of fencing which contains a sports field fence sign.
      (7)   The sign shall be made from a vinyl mesh material.




                                                       Page 2 of 3
                                                   Exhibit “B”

Sec. 21-37-20. "S" Definitions.
…
(44) Sign, field boards, means portable signs that are inside a major sports venue. Changeable copy is allowed.
…
(52) Sign, grandstand, means signs that are attached to fixed seats.




                                                     Page 3 of 3
                                      Exhibit “C”



Scoreboard and Scoreboard Signs - Interior




Scoreboard Sign – Exterior




                                       Page 1 of 7
                                     Exhibit “C”



Roof Signs (above the wall fascia)




                                      Page 2 of 7
                       Exhibit “C”

Wall Sign (Exterior)




Wall Sign (Interior)




Field Boards




                        Page 3 of 7
                                      Exhibit “C”



Sponsorship Scrim Panels - Interior




Sponsorship Scrim Panels - Exterior




                                       Page 4 of 7
                               Exhibit “C”

Freestanding Pylon Sign




Freestanding Direc onal Sign




                                Page 5 of 7
              Exhibit “C”

Banners




Blade Signs




               Page 6 of 7
                             Exhibit “C”

On-site Fencing Signs




Sports Field Fencing Signs




Grandstand Signs




                              Page 7 of 7
