                                         S ANDY CITY C O M M UN IT Y D E V EL O P ME N T
                                                                                                                                         JAMES SORENSEN
                                                                                                                                      COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
                                                                                                                                            DIRECTOR

                                                                                                                                           MONICA ZOLTANSKI
                                                                                                                                               MAYOR

                                                                                                                                         SHANE E. PACE
                                                                                                                                 CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER




                                Staff Report Memorandum
                                                   December 14, 2023


 To:             Planning Commission
 From:           Community Development Department
 Subject:        Sandy Shulsen Mixed Use (Cairns MU Site Plan                                                           SPR02082023-006482
                 Preliminary Review)                                                                                          CBD-A&C Zone
                 10115 S. Monroe St.                                                                                           Cairns District
                 [Commercial Area, #9]                                                                      3.85 Acres, 221 Units, 4500 sq. ft.
                                                                                                                 Office, & 6,200 Sq. Ft. Retail


 Public Meeting Notice: This item has been noticed to property owners within 500 feet of the subject
                                    area, on public websites, and at public locations.



Request
 The applicant, Howard Cooke of Gardner Group (representing the
 property owner, Riverdale Center, LC), is requesting preliminary site
 plan review of a mixed use site plan within the Cairns District known
 as Sandy Shulsen Mixed Use on a property located at 10115 S. Monroe
 St. The proposal is to construct a five-story mixed use building
 consisting of primarily residential for-rent apartments, ground floor
 retail, and office (see Exhibit “A” for application materials).

Background
 The property is part of the South Village of the Cairns Master Plan and
 is subject to the Cairns Design Standards. The land is vacant despite
 several different development proposals over the last three decades. The
 property is bordered by the Hilton Garden Inn to the north and the
 proposed Centennial Village redevelopment (which contains an
 existing retail and office building that contains the United States Postal
 Service) to the east that are both zoned Central Business District - Arts
 and Culture (CBD-A&C). To the southeast is the Boyer South Town
 Office building and another Boyer Office building (known as the Del
 Sol building) zoned Central Business District – Office (CBD-O). To
 the west is the I-15 corridor. With these surrounding developments,
 this vacant parcel has full site improvements for streets and utilities.
   10000 Centennial P arkway       | S a n d y, U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   |   p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   |   f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8    |   sandy.utah. gov
Sandy Shulsen Mixed Use (Cairns MU Site Plan Preliminary Review) – SPR02082023-006482                                                                 Page 2


                                                 Property Case History
         Case Number                                                               Case Summary
                                       The subject property and several others were annexed into the Sandy City
              A #90-3
                                       in 1990 and later incorporated into the Central Business District Zoning.

Public Notice and Outreach
 This item has been noticed to property owners within 500 feet of the subject area. No neighborhood meeting has been held
 as this property is within a commercial area with no existing residential properties near the proposed area.

Analysis
 Important design issues or considerations on this proposed development in the CBD-A&C Zone & Cairns Design Standards
 that will need to be reviewed by the Planning Commission include mix of uses, design priority (pedestrian/vehicular/shared),
 traffic calming, building frontages, building massing, building heights, lot coverage, building design and materials, building
 articulation, street level building entries, setbacks, public realm furnishings, and streetscape profiles.

 A mixed use residential concept is allowed in this zone wherein the objective of the mixed use concept is to create self-
 contained communities in which residents may walk to work, shopping and recreational facilities. While this single building
 alone won’t accomplish this goal, the overall master plan for the South Village will over time. This project fits into the overall
 mixed use development plan proposed for this area.

 In the CBD-A&C Zone, the development is required to have at least four (4) different uses overall and three (3) present in
 the first phase. The use list is the following: residential, office, a group of retail shops, health spa, theater, public/private or
 quasi-public schools, hotel, business or financial service, or restaurant. The adjacent property within this zone sub-district is
 the existing Hilton Garden Inn, which is not part of the development proposal and is not integrated into their development
 proposal. The Shulsen development contains three distinct uses (residential, office, and retail). The Planning Commission
 will need to determine if this standard is adequately met.

 Access:
 The proposed development will be accessed from Monroe Street. Both vehicular and pedestrian access points will be provided
 from this public street. Monroe Street was built without side treatments behind the curb and gutter. This development will
 provide improvements of parkstrips, sidewalks, and urban furnishings that will improve pedestrian mobility and comfort to
 the area. The building will be primarily oriented to the street and designed to encourage pedestrian activity. The proposed
 street improvements are designed to implement the Cairns Design Standards.

 Density and Residential Uses:
 There is no set density maximum within the CBD-A&C Zone and the mix of commercial and residential space is to be
 determined by the Planning Commission based on the availability of a parking structure and proposed amenities. The
 proposed building plans show 221 units and five stories tall with a fully wrapped parking garage. The applicant is currently
 showing programed amenity spaces inside the building (totaling 21,400 sq. ft.) which includes a rooftop amenity space and
 ground level tenant services. They are also creating two outdoor courtyards (totaling 15,000 sq. ft.), and block breaks or
 pedestrian mews on the north and south sides of the building (20,000 sq. ft.). This equates to 20% of the gross residential
 building area which exceeds the minimum requirement in the zone of at least 15% (41,562 sq. ft.). They are also creating a
 neighborhood open space (21,400 sq. ft.) within UDOT owned property. The caveat with this space is that it could be
 removed at any time if it’s needed for freeway expansion. See the attached landscape plans (Exhibit “A”) for details of these
 outdoor amenity spaces.

      10000 Centennial P arkway        | S a n d y, U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   |   p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   |   f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   |   sandy.utah. gov
Sandy Shulsen Mixed Use (Cairns MU Site Plan Preliminary Review) – SPR02082023-006482                                                                 Page 3



 Parking:
 The development proposal shows further improvements to Monroe Street that would create a total of twelve stalls of parallel
 on-street parking. A parking garage would provide an additional 393 stalls for a total of 405 parking stalls overall. City code
 would require that the development provide a total of 478 stalls for all the proposed uses and guest parking. The applicant
 is requesting a 15.3% parking reduction as part of this review as allowed in chapter 24 of the Land Development Code (see
 Sec. 21-24-3(c)). The applicant has prepared a parking demand analysis, and market demand analysis to justify this parking
 reduction. Staff has reviewed these reports (see attached Exhibit “B”) and agrees with the conclusion that this development
 should receive approval for a parking reduction.

 Architectural Design & Materials:
 The exterior elevations and materials have been reviewed by the Architectural Review Committee (ARC) over multiple
 meetings (see Exhibit “C” ARC Meeting Minutes). They presented different variations of the building form and design and
 ultimately received a positive recommendation from the committee. The current elevations incorporated the desired changes
 the committee recommended be implemented.

 They are proposing to use a stone veneer as the base material, with cementitious siding and plaster for the middle and top
 of the building. The exact percentages for each elevation have not been shown on the plans, but the applicant may have to
 alter them slightly to keep the maximum amount of stucco/plaster to under 20%.The architect is hoping to achieve a
 “mountain meets urban” design ethos with the mix and placement of materials and forms consistent with Cairns Master
 Plan (see Exhibit “D” for the Cairns Design Standards Review).

 Landscaping & Open Space:
 The applicant has submitted a full landscape plan for the site. Staff has found that it generally meets the requirements specific
 to the Cairns Design Standards, the CBD-A&C Zone and those of Chapter 15A-25 entitled Landscaping Standards. The
 plans reflect a variety of deciduous and coniferous trees, shrubs, and perennial flowers. This plan shows urban amenities
 such as street furniture, trash receptacles, bike racks, and planter areas along these street corridors. They are beneficial to the
 project design and enhance the pedestrian experience. All residential units are within ¼ mile walking distance to a publicly
 accessible open space (the Promenade) and to the neighborhood open space they are creating on the adjacent UDOT land.

 Public Art:
 Some public art is required and can be utilized to promote a sense of community identity and is required to be integrated
 into building and site designs. Murals, statuary, and building elements can be used to reflect local cultural and ethnic interests
 and add a unique element to public spaces within the development. The applicant has indicated potential locations on the
 site plan, and staff can work with them to ensure this is finalized before final approval of the project.

 Cairns Design Standards:
 The developer has been working with staff on the review of the Cairns Design Standards. While the project is largely meeting
 most of these standards, they are requesting a few exceptions. The applicant has identified proposed enhancements they are
 offering as offsets to the exceptions to the standards.

 There are two types of Cairns Standards exceptions requests: hardships and non-hardships. In review of the requested
 exceptions, staff finds that their requests fit into the non-hardship category as they can’t meet all five of the criteria of
 hardship type. The non-hardship exception requests must meet the following criteria:
     o The intent of the applicable regulations are met.
     o The intent of the Master Plan is met.

      10000 Centennial P arkway        | S a n d y, U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   |   p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   |   f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   |   sandy.utah. gov
Sandy Shulsen Mixed Use (Cairns MU Site Plan Preliminary Review) – SPR02082023-006482                                                                Page 4


    o The same or better-quality design is achieved.
 The following exceptions are sought (analysis of each item is shown below):
     Building Height of five stories
             - This area of the Cairns District calls for a minimum building height of eight stories. This is not required
                 for all portions of the building, but the intent is to have larger tower elements integrated into the area to
                 achieve greater massing and prominence in desired areas. No portion of the building exceeds five stories,
                 but there is a roof top element on the top of the building.
     Fenestration of base, middle, and top
             - There is a fenestration requirement of 40% min glass window/door treatments on all elevations of a
                 residential building. The architects believe the existing design fits the building type and would rather seek
                 an exception than fully comply with this requirement.
     Building Setback
             - The southeast side of the building does not meet the setback of 16 feet. They are requesting a 14 foot
                 setback for this corner of the building. The rest of the building complies with the min and maximum
                 setbacks required for a type 3 street.
     Driveway Approach Width
             - The maximum width of a driveway approach is 24 feet. This is designed to limit the interruptions of the
                 pedestrian paths in the Cairns and shorten crossing distances. They are seeking a 35 foot width to allow for
                 a delivery and moving van loading zone without requiring parallel parking movements.
     Parkstrip and Sidewalk
             - The parkstrip is typically required behind the curb and gutter of the roadway or on-street parking. They
                 are proposing to place the sidewalk immediately adjacent to their on-street parking areas and have the
                 parkstrip behind the sidewalk. Monroe is a type 3 street and requires an informal parkstrip arrangement,
                 but this proposed design is not compliant with the standard.
     Pedestrian Crossing Refuge Island
             - There is a proposed pedestrian crossing at the future intersection of 10080 South. However, Monroe Street
                 exceeds 38’ in width and would require a pedestrian refuge island to improve walkability and pedestrian
                 comfort.

 The applicant is proposing the following as development enhancements to offset the impact of not complying with the
 requirements listed above:
      Neighborhood Open Space (21,400 sq. ft.) within UDOT owned property. This would be an excellent
         improvement for the area to increase livability and provide an additional amenity to this project and others in the
         area. However, it could be removed at any time if it’s needed for freeway expansion by UDOT.
      Rooftop Amenity Area. While not listed as an enhancement by the applicant, staff believes this is considered a
         desirable design element for the Cairns.
      Wrapped Parking Structure. Screening of parking garages is required along a type 3 street, but full concealment of
         the entire structure is not required and a highly encouraged design.
      Secondary Monument Sign & Pedestrian Wayfinding Signs. The exact locations of these proposed signs have not
         been determined, but the applicant is willing to install these either within their own property or other desirable
         areas within the Cairns District. Staff can work with the applicant to identify these locations prior to final approval.

 Development enhancements are intended to balance the scales of failure to comply with all of Cairns Design Standards.
 Staff supports these proposed enhancements as being sufficient to offset the negative impacts to the branding identity and
 unique design elements that make this area unique.

      10000 Centennial P arkway       | S a n d y, U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   |   p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   |   f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   |   sandy.utah. gov
Sandy Shulsen Mixed Use (Cairns MU Site Plan Preliminary Review) – SPR02082023-006482                                                               Page 5


  Staff Concerns
  There are no further concerns about the proposal.

Recommendation
  Staff recommends that the Planning Commission determine preliminary site plan review is complete for the Sandy Shulsen
  Mixed Use located at 10115 S. Monroe St. based on the following findings and subject to the following conditions:

Findings:
    1. The applicant has met the intent and substantially complies with most of the applicable Cairns Design Standards and
       the Cairns Master Plan.

    2. The applicant has demonstrated that they have largely complied or intend to comply with the Land Development
       Code requirements for the CBD-A&C Zone and the intended use of a mixed use development in this area.

    3. The proposed development enhancements provide the same or better overall quality design than the exceptions sought
       to achieve the branding identity and unique design elements that make this area stand out.

    4. The mix of proposed uses is consistent with the objectives and plans for the South Village area and meets the criteria
       for a mixed use development.

    5. The applicant has provided sufficient studies and evidence to support the parking reduction and sharing arrangements
       for this proposed development.

Conditions:
   1. That street improvements be carried out according to Plan and Profiles approved by the Sandy City Engineer and
       specifically:
            a. That Monroe Street be further improved and dedicated to include on-street parking and 16 foot wide
                streetscape behind the curb and gutter.

    2. That the developer proceeds through the final site plan review process with staff. The Final Site Plan shall be in
       compliance with all Development Code requirements, staff redlines, and those modifications as required by the
       Planning Commission.

    3. That the development comply with all Building & Safety, Fire and Life Safety Codes applicable to this type of use.

    4. That the developer be responsible to meet all provisions of the Cairns Design Standards, with the following approved
       exceptions:
           a. building height of less than eight stories and approved to be a minimum of five stories
           b. fenestration of base, middle, and top less than 40% as shown in the architectural elevations
           c. building setback reduction of 2 feet to allow for a 14 foot setback on the southeast side of building
           d. driveway approach width over 24 feet to allow up to 35 feet
           e. allow the sidewalk to be placed behind the curb and gutter, with the parkstrip behind the sidewalk
           f. no pedestrian crossing refuge island be installed on Monroe Street

    5. That the developer be responsible to install the following development enhancements to offset the listed exceptions:
          a. neighborhood open space (21,400 sq. ft.) within UDOT owned property

       10000 Centennial P arkway     | S a n d y, U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   |   p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   |   f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   |   sandy.utah. gov
Sandy Shulsen Mixed Use (Cairns MU Site Plan Preliminary Review) – SPR02082023-006482                                                               Page 6


            b. rooftop amenity area
            c. wrapped parking structure
            d. secondary monument sign & at least two pedestrian wayfinding signs

   6. That the development be approved with a 15.3% parking reduction. The development shall provide 393 parking
      stalls within the on-site parking garage and 12 on-street stalls on Monroe St.

   7. All utility boxes (i.e. transformers, switch gear, telephone, cable tv, etc.) shall be shown on the site plan and shall be
      placed underground or moved behind the front setback of the buildings and screened from view. Each box shall be
      shown in its exact location and shall be noted with its exact height, width and length. Building utility meters shall be
      mounted to the side or rear elevation or screened with a wing wall if fronting a public street.

   8. That the developer be responsible for the placement of a temporary 6-foot-high chain link fence around the perimeter
      of the project during the construction phase of the project for security and safety. Said fence shall also be required to
      include fabric to prohibit blowing dust problems, if it becomes necessary or if it is required by the Community
      Development Department during Site Plan Review.

   9. That the architectural massing, design, and proposed building materials be approved as presented with the provision
      that the applicant work with staff to ensure that no elevations exceed 20% stucco/plaster.

   10. That project signs be allowed upon receiving a detailed sign permit package that complies with the Sandy City Sign
       Ordinance. Signs will need to be reviewed at final review with Staff.

   11. A subdivision plat must be recorded before building permits can be issued for this development to amend and extend
       the Sandy City Centre Plat.

   12. That the applicant work with staff to determine an appropriate implementation of public art within the project area.


 Planner:




 Mike Wilcox
 Planning Director

File Name: S:\USERS\PLN\STAFFRPT\2023\SPR02082023-006482_SHULSEN MU\PLANNING COMMISSION\STAFF
REPORT.DOCX




      10000 Centennial P arkway      | S a n d y, U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   |   p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   |   f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   |   sandy.utah. gov
Sandy Shulsen Mixed Use (Cairns MU Site Plan Preliminary Review) – SPR02082023-006482                                                            Page 7


                                                  Exhibit “A”
                                    – see attachment for the full set of plans –




      10000 Centennial P arkway   | S a n d y, U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   |   p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   |   f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   |   sandy.utah. gov
Sandy Shulsen Mixed Use (Cairns MU Site Plan Preliminary Review) – SPR02082023-006482                                                            Page 8


                                                  Exhibit “B”
                                    – See attachment for the full document –




      10000 Centennial P arkway   | S a n d y, U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   |   p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   |   f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   |   sandy.utah. gov
Sandy Shulsen Mixed Use (Cairns MU Site Plan Preliminary Review) – SPR02082023-006482                                                            Page 9


                                                  Exhibit “C”
                                    – See attachment for the full document –




      10000 Centennial P arkway   | S a n d y, U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   |   p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   |   f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   |   sandy.utah. gov
Sandy Shulsen Mixed Use (Cairns MU Site Plan Preliminary Review) – SPR02082023-006482                                                           Page 10


                                                  Exhibit “D”
                                    – See attachment for the full document –




      10000 Centennial P arkway   | S a n d y, U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   |   p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   |   f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   |   sandy.utah. gov
