                                                                                        10000 South Centennial

                                       Sandy City                                       Parkway Suite 231
                                                                                        Sandy, UT 84070

                                      Council Office                                    O| 801-568-7141
                                                                                        Sandy.Utah.Gov




                                             MEMORANDUM

                                             February 21, 2023

To:                City Council Members

CC:                Monica Zoltanski, Mayor
                   Dustin Fratto, Council Executive Director
                   Shane Pace, CAO

From:              Brooke D’Sousa, Council Member At-large

Subject:           First Reading: Survey Approval Team Proposal



Over the past few years Sandy City has begun gathering data and opinions by resident survey more
frequently than in the past. With our increased use of this platform, I and other council members have
expressed concerns related to data reliability, data collection methodology, survey frequency, survey
topic, and survey questions. The council and administration have worked together to address the data
concerns; however, other concerns persist. In this proposal I aim to outline a solution that may help us
to address some of these remaining challenges as a city.

In my professional life I’ve worked with communications teams in the private sector that regularly put
out messaging, surveys, and other types of communication representing multiple departments,
divisions, and groups within one organization. Almost exclusively, this type of communication was
required to undergo an approval process. A representative from each stakeholder was required to
review and approve the content in respect to their area of oversight prior to its public debut. In Sandy
City government there are two separate but equal branches (The Executive branch and the Legislative
branch) that together make up “the City.” Each of these branches is a key stakeholder in many of the
surveys that have already been issued and will continue being issued to Sandy residents. However, in
most instances, the two key stakeholders have not had the opportunity to come together to provide
input nor approval on surveys that are issued by and on behalf of “the City.”

To overcome this challenge, I’d like to propose a process for the approval of any survey that meets one
of the following criteria:

      1. The survey is issued by “the City.”
      2. The survey is purported to be on behalf of Sandy City
      3. The survey is intended to gather information that will be presented or discussed during a public
         meeting.
      4. The survey is intended to inform or influence policy decisions pertaining to any area where the
         council exercises oversight
      5. The results of the survey will inform the position that “the City” will take on an issue
I propose that the Council adopt an ordinance amending our Legislative Code that outlines how, when,
and which surveys that meet the above criteria will be approved by “the City.” I ask that the Council
consider implementing the following:

    1. Create a Survey Approval Team (SAT) that consists of 1 council member, 1 council staff member,
       the mayor, and 1 administrative staff member.
    2. The SAT will not create surveys or write individual survey questions. The group will review
       surveys and discuss possible edits. Ultimately, the SAT will either approve or reject each survey.
    3. The SAT will have the responsibility to review final drafts of surveys from the perspective of the
       branch they represent. Before a survey can be issued, it must be unanimously approved by the
       SAT via signature on form created for this purpose (A meeting to discuss a survey or questions
       would only be required if one or more SAT members doesn’t approve the draft survey).
    4. When the results of any approved survey that meets the criteria identified above is presented
       during a public meeting, the results must include the signed SAT form.

My hope is that a SAT will help us remain true to the “One Sandy” vision by encouraging collaboration
and agreement on future city surveys. I’m bringing this forward as an attempt to help ensure that the
results of city surveys are viewed with absolute confidence by everyone in Sandy City government.

As this is a first reading, I am seeking feedback on my proposal from the council and mayor. After I
receive your input, I will bring back an ordinance for council consideration during a second reading.
