                                                                                                                 Formatted: Indent: Left: 1", First line: 0.5"
                                                                                                                 Formatted: Top: (No border), Bottom: (No border),
                                                                                                                 Left: (No border), Right: (No border)




            STATE OF UTAH & SANDY CITY PLEDGE
               OF FAIR CAMPAIGN PRACTICES
                                         (Utah Code §20A-9-206)

WHEREAS, Utah Code §20A-9-206 contemplates that each person seeking to become a candidate for any                Formatted: Font: 11 pt
elective office that is to be filled at the next election shall be provided with a copy of the pledge of fair
                                                                                                                 Formatted: Indent: Left: 0.06"
campaign practices; and
WHEREAS, There are basic principles of decency, honesty, and fair play which every candidate for                 Formatted: Font: 11 pt
public office in the State of Utah has a moral obligation to observe and uphold, in order that, after            Formatted: Font: 11 pt
vigorously contested but fairly conducted campaigns, our citizens may exercise their right to a free
election, and that the will of the people may be fully and clearly expressed on the issues; and.
WHEREAS, Sandy City believes that each candidate for office should play by the rules, exercise                   Formatted: Font: Not Bold
civility, adhere to all state and local laws, and strive to keep Sandy beautiful.

NOW THEREFORE:

    I SHALL conduct my campaign openly and publicly, discussing the issues as I see them, presenting
my record and policies with sincerity and frankness, and criticizing, without fear or favor, the record and
policies of my opponents that I believe merit criticism.
    I SHALL NOT use, nor shall I permit the use of, scurrilous attacks on any candidate or the candidate's
immediate family. I shall not participate in, nor shall I permit the use of, defamation, libel, or slander
against any candidate or the candidate's immediate family. I shall not participate in, nor shall I permit the
use of, any other criticism of any candidate or the candidate's immediate family that I do not believe to be
truthful, provable, and relevant to my campaign.
    I SHALL NOT use, nor shall I permit the use of, any practice that tends to corrupt or undermine our
American system of free elections, or that hinders or prevents the free expression of the will of the voters,
including practices intended to hinder or prevent any eligible person from registering to vote or voting.
    I SHALL NOT coerce election help or campaign contributions for myself or for any other candidate
from my employees or volunteers.
    I SHALL immediately and publicly repudiate support deriving from any individual or group which
resorts, on behalf of my candidacy or in opposition to that of an opponent, to methods in violation of the
letter or spirit of this pledge. I shall accept responsibility to take firm action against any subordinate who
violates any provision of this pledge or the laws governing elections.
    I SHALL defend and uphold the right of every qualified American voter to full and equal participation
in the electoral process.
    I SHALL follow all state and local laws related to my candidacy for office in Sandy City including, but      Formatted: Font: Not Bold
not limited to, campaign finance disclosure requirements, and the proper and lawful placement and
installation of campaign signage.
    I SHALL strive to keep Sandy beautiful and free of clutter while campaigning. When placing campaign          Formatted: Font: Not Bold
signage, I will adhere to all germane regulations found in Chapter §21-26 “Signage and Outdoor
Advertising” of the Sandy Land Development Code, including all regulations for temporary signs. By my
own choice, I will not begin placing campaign signage until after I have formally filed as a candidate for
office with the Sandy City Recorder. I will remove and collect all my campaign signs immediately upon
the conclusion of the election.
    I SHALL seek to ensure that those who work or otherwise volunteer on my campaign shall also adopt            Formatted: Font: Not Bold
the aspirations declared in this pledge.
   I, the undersigned, candidate for election to public office in the State of Utah, hereby voluntarily               Formatted: Font: Bold
endorse, subscribe to, and solemnly pledge myself to conduct my campaign in accordance with the above
principles and practices."


Name:                                                                 Office:


Signature:                                                                            Date:


*This is a voluntary pledge. Candidates are not required to sign this pledge of fair campaign practices.

*This document is considered a public record and will be retained for public inspection until 30 days following the
election.
