                                       S ANDY CITY C O M M UN IT Y D E V EL O P ME N T
                                                                                                                                       JAMES SORENSEN
                                                                                                                                    COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
                                                                                                                                          DIRECTOR

                                                                                                                                         MONICA ZOLTANSKI
                                                                                                                                             MAYOR

                                                                                                                                         SHANE E. PACE
                                                                                                                                      CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE
                                                                                                                                             OFFICER




                              Staff Report Memorandum
                                                 December 14, 2023


 To:             City Council via Planning Commission
 From:           Community Development Department
 Subject:        Amendments to Title 21 of the Land Development Code                                                        CA09272023-0006628
                 related to Subdivision Review Standards


 Public Hearing Notice: This item has been noticed on public websites, sent to affected entities and
                                  posted in three public locations at least 10 days prior to the Public Hearing.


Request
 On behalf of Sandy City, the Community Development Department is proposing to amend Title 21, Land Development
 Code, Chapter 30, Subdivision Review, and Chapter 36, Notice Requirements. The purpose of the code amendments is to
 update the standards for subdivision review procedures to bring the Land Development Code in line with recent changes to
 the Utah State Code, and to streamline, and clarify subdivision review requirements and procedures.

 These amendments have been reviewed by the Development Review Team, which is an interdepartmental group consisting
 of the Community Development, Public Works, Public Utilities, Parks and Recreation, Police, Fire and City Attorney
 Departments. The specific amendments to the Land Development Code are included as Exhibit “A” (red-lined version) and
 Exhibit “B” (clean version).

Background
 During the 2023 Utah Legislative Session, Senate Bill 174 and House Bill 406 were passed, which created new procedures
 that cities and counties must follow for subdividing residential property. SB 174 requires local governments to update their
 subdivision ordinance; the deadline for Sandy City is February 1, 2024. SB 406 removes the requirement for a public meeting
 on property line adjustments. The impetus behind these new state regulations is to facilitate increased housing supply, by
 creating a uniform subdivision process statewide.

 In response to these new procedural requirements for residential subdivisions, Sec. 21-30, Subdivision Review, and Sec. 21-36
 Notice Requirements, have been updated to bring the City’s land use code into compliance with the new state law provisions.
 The proposed amendments also streamline, clarify, and re-organize the subdivision review requirements and procedures, as
 well as update the public notice requirements for consistency.



   10000 Centennial P arkway     | S a n d y, U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   |   p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   |   f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8    |   sandy.utah. gov
Amendments Related to Subdivision Review Standards – CA09272023-0006628                                                                                                   Page 2


                                                                         Case History
        Case Number                                                                               Case Summary
                                                   Amends various sections of Title 21 of the Sandy City Municipal Code, including Chapter
                                                   30, Subdivision Review, to include requirements for Storm Water Analysis and Drainage
      Ordinance No. 21-08
                                                   Plans, Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan, Notice of Intent and Post Construction
      CODE_02-21-5989
                                                   Storm Water Maintenance Agreements.
                                                   LDC 2008, § 15A-30-01; Ord. No. 21-08 , § 1(Exh. A), 3-23-2021.
                                                   Amendments to Title 21 of the Sandy City Municipal Code (formerly Title 15A of the
                                                   Revised Ordinances of Sandy City), Chapter 36, “Notice Requirements” to align the
                                                   development code regulations with recent amendments to State requirements.
      Ordinance No. 20-12
                                                   Amendment allows City to exceed certain minimum State mandated noticing
      CODE-09-20-5907
                                                   requirements on certain types of land use applications, by requiring both mailed and
                                                   physical posting of public notice of public meetings.
                                                   Ord. No. 20-12 , § 1(Exh. A), 10-20-2020.
                                                   Amends various sections of Title 21 of the Sandy City Municipal Code (formerly Title 15A
                                                   of the Revised Ordinances of Sandy City), Chapter 30, “Subdivision Review” to address
      Ordinance No. 15-22
                                                   Utah Pollution Discharge Elimination System (UPDES), Storm Water Pollution Prevention
       CODE-5-15-4333
                                                   Plan (SWPPP) and to encourage a Low Impact Development approach for new
                                                   development in the City. LDC 2008, § 15A-30-03; Ord. No. 15-22, 7-15-2015.
                                                   Amends various sections of Title 21 of the Sandy City Municipal Code (formerly Title 15A
      Ordinance No. 14-29                          of the Revised Ordinances of Sandy City), Chapter 30, “Subdivision Review” to establish
       CODE-5-14-3640                              regulations related to private roads and associated development improvements for new
                                                   subdivisions. LDC 2008, § 15A-30-08; Ord. No. 14-29, 9-28-2014;
                                                   Amendments to Title 21 of the Sandy City Municipal Code (formerly Title 15A of the
      Ordinance No. 12-03                          Revised Ordinances of Sandy City), Chapter 30, “Subdivision Review.”
                                                   LDC 2008, § 15A-30-06; Ord. No. 12-03, 1-27-2012;
                                                   Amendments to Title 21 of the Sandy City Municipal Code (formerly Title 15A of the
      Ordinance No. 09-13                          Revised Ordinances of Sandy City), Chapter 30, “Subdivision Review.”
                                                   LDC 2008, § 15A-30-03; Ord. No. 09-13, 5-15-2009;

Public Notice
 The city issued notice of the public hearing for the proposed code amendments on public websites, mailed notice to affected
 entities and posted in three public locations at least 10 days prior to the Planning Commission public hearing in accordance
 with the Land Development Code Sec. 21-36-1 and the Utah State Code § 10-9a-205.

Analysis
 The new state law requirements include the following provisions:
    1. Pre-application meetings must be voluntary and may not be required by the local government. If requested, a pre-
        application meeting must be conducted within 15 business days, and the local government must provide the
        applicant with applicable land use regulations, standards, application checklists, and feedback on the concept plan.
    2. Local governments must publish a list of all application requirements for preliminary and final subdivision review
        applications, and they must accept applications in a digital, PDF format.
    3. A two-step process for residential subdivision applications is established with preliminary and final review. The
        review process can be streamlined into a one-step process, but it cannot exceed two.
    4. Local governments must designate an administrative land use authority for reviewing subdivision applications. The
        land use authority may be staff or the Planning Commission for preliminary review; however, the land use authority
        may not be the Planning Commission for final review. The new state law also prohibits the City Council from being
        the land use authority for residential subdivisions.
    5. The administrative land use authority may receive public comment and may conduct up to one public hearing for

      1 0 0 0 0 C e n t e n n i a l Pa r k w a y   | S a n d y, U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   |   p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   |   f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   |   s a n d y . u t a h . g ov
Amendments Related to Subdivision Review Standards – CA09272023-0006628                                                                                                   Page 3

          preliminary subdivision determination. The administrative land use authority may also conduct a public meeting
          in lieu of a public hearing.
     6.   A procedure for local government review, comment, and for applicant response to comments on subdivision
          applications is established:
          a. Staff must review preliminary subdivision applications within 15 business days and review final subdivision
               applications within 20 business days of receiving complete applications.
          b. Review cycles are limited to a total of four; however, a review cycle is not considered complete until the applicant
               has adequately addressed all the comments identified by the local government.
          c. Local governments may only add new comments after the first review cycle in response to changes made by the
               applicant or if a correction is necessary to protect public health or safety, or to enforce state or federal law.
     7.   Preliminary and final subdivision applications must be approved if they meet all requirements of the local code and
          state law.
     8.   A new appeal procedure is created for disputes on subdivisions relating to public improvement or engineering
          standards after four review cycles have been completed. Disputes are reviewed by a technical panel of three experts:
          one engineer chosen by the city, one chosen by the applicant, and one agreed upon by both the city and applicant.
     9.   The requirement for a public meeting on property line adjustments is eliminated.

 A summary of the differences between the existing and proposed code for property line adjustments, subdivision plat
 amendments and subdivisions are presented in a table format under Exhibit “C” of this report. A summary of proposed code
 amendments is also described below:
     1. In general, the subdivision review standards in Chapter 30 are reorganized and clarified, new state law requirements
        are incorporated as necessary, application requirements are updated to match current digital review practices, and
        procedures are streamlined whenever possible.
     2. Public Notice: Public notice requirements in Chapter 36 of the code are updated to be consistent with the
        subdivision review chapter.
     3. Property Line Adjustments:
             a. Property line adjustments are only applicable for parcels described by metes and bounds and are not
                 applicable for existing lots within a recorded subdivision plat.
             b. Property line adjustments procedures are streamlined by removing the requirement for a public meeting.
                 The Director is still the land use authority, but the requirement for noticing surrounding property owners
                 is eliminated.
             c. The criteria for approval of a property line adjustment are strengthened.
     4. Subdivision Plat Amendments:
             a. Subdivision plat amendments are streamlined by requiring a single step review process rather than two.
             b. The criteria for approval of a plat amendment are strengthened.
             c. The land use authority is clarified by designating the Director as the land use authority unless a public
                 hearing is required per state law. In which case the Planning Commission is the land use authority.
             d. A final plat is required for all subdivision plat amendments; however, the plat information requirements
                 are simplified by reducing the signature blocks to only those necessary by State law. In addition, the final
                 plat only needs to include the portion of the plat that is being amended (not the entire plat).
     5. Subdivisions:
             a. A pre-application meeting with the development review team is strongly encouraged rather than required,
                 consistent with state law.
             b. A neighborhood meeting is required for all subdivision applications, consistent with current business
                 practices of the City.
             c. Application requirements for preliminary and final subdivision review are clarified and strengthened. More
                 information is required early in the process at preliminary review, to ensure the number of review cycles
                 stays within the maximum of four allowed by state law.

      1 0 0 0 0 C e n t e n n i a l Pa r k w a y   | S a n d y, U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   |   p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   |   f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   |   s a n d y . u t a h . g ov
Amendments Related to Subdivision Review Standards – CA09272023-0006628                                                                                                   Page 4

                 d. The procedure for preliminary and final subdivision review cycles are updated, consistent with state law.
                 e. Subdivision review procedures are streamlined by designating the Director as the land use authority for all
                    preliminary subdivision applications that are not otherwise determined by the Planning Commission.
                 f. The Planning Commission is designated as the land use authority for any subdivision that involves:
                          i. More than 10 lots;
                         ii. Dedication and improvement of new, or an extension of existing, streets (does not apply to
                             proposals that only dedicate and/or improve frontage on an existing public or private street);
                        iii. An Overlay Zone;
                        iv. Special Exception;
                         v. Waiver request;
                        vi. Written public comment of objection or negative impact; or
                       vii. A referral by the Director to the Planning Commission.
                 g. Public notice requirements for decisions by the Director may include mailing notice to surrounding
                    property owners or posting a notice on the property, while decisions by the Planning Commission require
                    both mailing notice and posting the property.

Non-Conforming Uses
 This code amendment would not create any non-conforming situations.

Land Development Code Purpose Compliance
 The Sandy City Land Development Code in 21-1-3 lists the criteria explaining the intent and purpose of the Ordinance.
 The purpose is:
       21-1-3 Purpose
       This Code is adopted to implement Sandy City’s General Plan and to promote public health, safety, convenience,
       aesthetics, welfare; efficient use of land; sustainable land use and building practices; transportation options and
       accessibility; crime prevention; timely citizen involvement in land use decision making; and efficiency in development
       review and land use administration. Specifically, this Code is established to promote the following purposes:
       1. General
          a. To facilitate the orderly growth and development of Sandy City.
          b. To facilitate adequate provision for transportation, water, sewage, schools, parks, and other public
             requirements.
          c. To stabilize property values.
          d. To enhance the economic well-being of Sandy City and its inhabitants.
       2. Implementation of General Plan
          To coordinate and ensure the implementation of the City’s General Plan through effective execution of
          development review requirements, adequate facility and services review and other goals, policies, or programs
          contained in the General Plan.
       3. Comprehensive, Consistent and Equitable Regulations
          To establish a system of fair, comprehensive, consistent and equitable regulations, standards and procedures for
          review and approval of all proposed land development within the City.
       4. Efficiently and Effectively Managed Procedures
          a. To promote fair procedures that are efficient and effective in terms of time and expense.
          b. To be effective and responsive in terms of the allocation of authority and delegation of powers and duties
               among ministerial, appointed, and elected officials.
          c. To foster a positive customer service attitude and to respect the rights of all applicants and affected citizens.

      1 0 0 0 0 C e n t e n n i a l Pa r k w a y   | S a n d y, U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   |   p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   |   f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   |   s a n d y . u t a h . g ov
Amendments Related to Subdivision Review Standards – CA09272023-0006628                                                                                                   Page 5

 The proposed code amendment is consistent with the purpose of the Land Development Code because the proposal
 promotes the public health, safety and welfare; ensures consistency and equitable standards; establishes fair procedures that
 are efficient and effective in terms of time and expense; facilitates the orderly growth and development of Sandy City; and
 is consistent with the Sandy City General Plan.

General Plan Compliance
 The Sandy City General Plan encourages appropriate development standards for all uses and zoning categories within the
 city. The proposed code amendment furthers that goal and objective by establishing appropriate land development standards
 for all uses and zoning categories within Sandy City.

Recommendation
 Staff recommends that the Planning Commission forward a positive recommendation to the City Council to amend Title
 21, of the Sandy Municipal Code, relating to Subdivision Review standards as shown in Exhibit “A”, based on the following
 findings:

Findings:
    1. The City Council may amend land use ordinances consistent with the purposes of the Sandy Land Development
       Code, the Sandy City General Plan, and the Utah Code, Municipal Land Use, Development, and Management Act
       per Title 21 Chapter 5 of the Sandy Municipal Code.
   2. The proposal is reviewed by the Planning Commission and City Council in accordance with the requirements of Title
      21 Chapter 5 of the Sandy Municipal Code.
   3. The proposal complies with the purpose of the Land Development Code under Section 21-1-03 by promoting the
      public health, safety, and welfare; ensuring consistent and equitable standards; establishing fair procedures that are
      efficient and effective in terms of time and expense; and by facilitating the orderly growth and development of Sandy
      City.
   4. The proposal complies with the Goals and Policies of the General Plan by establishing appropriate development
      standards for all uses and zoning categories within Sandy City.

 Planner:




 Melissa Anderson
 Zoning Administrator

 Exhibits:
    A. Proposed code amendments (red-lined version)
    B. Proposed code amendments (clean version)
    C. Summary of the differences between the existing and proposed code


 File Name: S:\USERS\PLN\STAFFRPT\2023\CA09272023-0006628 - SUBDIVISION CODE AMEND\STAFF REPORT\STAFF REPORT - SUBDIVISION
 REVIEW.FINAL.DOCX




      1 0 0 0 0 C e n t e n n i a l Pa r k w a y   | S a n d y, U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   |   p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   |   f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   |   s a n d y . u t a h . g ov
                                                     Exhibit “A”


                             CHAPTER 21-36. NOTICE REQUIREMENTS1

Sec. 21-36-1. General Public Notice Requirements.
(a)   For each land use application which requires a public hearing or public meeting, public notice shall be done
      as provided within this chapter, except as required by Utah State Code.
(b)   For each land use application which requires a public hearing or public meeting, and public notice is not
      specified by Utah State Code, the City shall provide notice (including the type of meeting, date, time,
      location, description of land use application, and City contact information) as follows:
      (1)   Notice of Public Hearing. The City shall provide notice of a public hearing at least three days before the
            hearing that shall be posted in at least three public locations within the City, on the City's official
            website, and on the Utah Public Notice Website.
      (2)   Notice for Public Meetings. The City shall provide notice of a public meeting at least 24 hours before
            the meeting that shall be posted in at least three public locations within the City, on the City's official
            website, and on the Utah Public Notice Website.
(Ord. No. 20-12 , § 1(Exh. A), 10-20-2020)


Sec. 21-36-2. Third-Party Public Notice.
(a)   For each land use application that requires a public meeting or hearing that concerns a specific parcel of
      property, public third-party notice shall be done as provided within this chapter, except as required by Utah
      State Code. The City shall:
      (1)   Mail notice at least five days before the public hearing or public meeting to the record owner of each
            parcel within 500 feet of the property that is the subject of the hearing, including property owners
            within the City boundaries and property owners within adjacent jurisdictions; or
      (2)   Post notice at least ten days before the public hearing or public meeting on the property with a sign of
            sufficient size, durability, print quality, and location that is reasonably calculated to give notice to
            passersby.
            a.    The City shall take a photo verifying that the notice has been posted. The City shall inspect and
                  verify, with another photo, at least one other time during notice period. This verification shall be
                  included in the application packet for the public meeting/hearing.
            b.    This posted notice should include the following: type of meeting, date, time, location, description
                  of land use application, and City contact information.
            c.    If this posted notice is destroyed or disappears during the notice period, the City's ability to hold
                  the public meeting/hearing will not be delayed, and it will not affect the validity of decisions
                  made at the public meeting/hearing.




1
Editor's note(s)—Ord. No. 20-12 , § 1(Exh. A), adopted October 20, 2020, amended Ch. 21-36 in its entirety, in
     effect repealing and reenacting said Ch. 21-36 to read as set out herein. The former Ch. 21-36, §§ 21-36-1—
     21-36-10, pertained to notice requirements and derived from LDC 2008, §§ 15A-36-01, 15A-36-02, 15A-36-
     05, 15A-36-07, 15A-36-09, and 15A-36-10.
State law reference(s)—Notice requirements, U.C.A. 1953, § 10-9a-201 et seq.



                                                       Page 1 of 2
                                                     Exhibit “A”

(b)   For all rezone, residential subdivision, and commercial site plan (within 250 feet of a residential zone district
      boundary) land use applications that require a public meeting or hearing, the City shall mail notice to
      adjacent property owners and post notice on the property as required by State Code and this section.
(b)   The City shall provide both mailed and posted notice in accordance with subsection (a) of this Section, for any
      required public meeting or hearing that involve any one of the following:
      (1)   Rezone;
      (2)   Commercial site plan within 250 feet of a residential zone district boundary; or
      (3)   Subdivision where the Planning Commission is the land use authority.
(c)   For all land use applications that require a neighborhood meeting, the City shall mail a public notice in
      accordance with subsection (a)(1) of this Section.
(Ord. No. 20-12 , § 1(Exh. A), 10-20-2020)


Sec. 21-36-3. State Code Required Notices.
(a)   General Plan.
      See U.C.A. 1953, §§ 10-9a-203 and 10-9a-204.
(b)   Zone District Map and Land Development Code.
      See U.C.A. 1953, § 10-9a-205
(c)   Subdivision Amendments.
      See U.C.A. 1953, § 10-9a-207.
(d)   Street Vacations, Alteration, Amendments or Closure.
      See U.C.A. 1953, § 10-9a-207 and § 10-9a-208.
(e)   Miscellaneous Notice Requirements (Transportation Corridors, Higher Education Housing, Canals, etc).
      See U.C.A. 1953, § 10-9a-206, § 10-9a-210, § 10-9a-211, § 10-9a-212, and § 10-9a-213.
(f)   Applicant Notice—Waiver of Requirements.
      See U.C.A. 1953, § 10-9a-202.
(g)   Notice Challenge.
      See U.C.A. 1953, § 10-9a-209.
(Ord. No. 20-12 , § 1(Exh. A), 10-20-2020)




                                                       Page 2 of 2
                                                           Exhibit “A”


      CHAPTER 21-30. SUBDIVISION REVIEW1

      Sec. 21-30-1. Purpose.
      (a)   The purposes of this cChapter are:
            (1)    To promote the health, safety, and general welfare of City residents;
            (2)    To ensure the efficient and orderly development of land;
            (3)    To prevent the uncontrolled division and development of real property;
            (4)    To avoid poorly planned developments that:
                   a.     Do not comply with the General Plan or City ordinances;
                   b.     Cannot be efficiently served by existing utilities or public services;
                   c.     May prove to be dangerous or unsafe;
                   d.     May cause an undue burden on existing traffic or transportation services;
                   e.     May require the future expenditure of public funds to correct problems caused by the
                          development;
                   f.     Restricts the ability of efficient development on adjoining properties;
            (5)    To minimize the number of boundary line disputes in the City and eliminate existing property line gaps
                   and property line overlaps;
            (6)    To provide establish a mechanism requiring each developer to pay provide for the public improvements
                   associated with a particular subdivision, and provide a mechanism for each subdivision to pay its fair
                   share of increased burdens on existing public services;
            (7)    To provide design standards: To establish a procedure to ensure the provision of:
                   a.     For pPublic improvements, facilities and utilities;
                   b.     For aAccess to public rights-of-way;
                   c.     For tThe dedication of land and streets deemed necessary for the proper development of the
                          subdivision;
                   d.     For eEasements or rights-of-way that are necessary to service the property.
(b)   This Chapter sets forth the processes for obtaining preliminary and final subdivision development approval, as well
      as vacating or amending a subdivision plat, vacating a public street, right-of-way or easement, property line
      adjustments, and subdivision improvements. This chapter is designed to inform the subdivision developer and the
      public of the requirements for obtaining subdivision plat approval. To this end, an attempt has been made to outline
      all subdivision requirements in this chapter and other applicable ordinances and laws. Each parcel of real property
      is unique. Also, there may be some aspects of subdivision development that cannot easily be articulated, and it's not
      possible to cover every possible contingency. Therefore, additional reasonable conditions may be imposed as
      deemed necessary provided that:
      (1)    The conditions are not arbitrary or capricious.
      (2)    The conditions are necessary to promote the health, safety, or welfare of the citizens of Sandy.
      (3)    The conditions do not conflict with any applicable law.




      1
      State law reference(s)—Subdivisions, U.C.A. 1953, § 10-9a-601 et seq.



                                                            Page 1 of 21
                                                    Exhibit “A”

(LDC 2008, § 15A-30-01; Ord. No. 21-08 , § 1(Exh. A), 3-23-2021)

Sec. 21-30-2. Necessity of Subdivision Plat Approval.
(a)   Subdivision Approval Required. Any division of real property located within the City which conforms tothat
      meets the definition of a subdivision as set forth in this tTitle is subject to the terms of this chapter and must
      obtain the City subdivision approval of the City before it may be filed or recorded at the Salt Lake County
      Recorder's Office.
(b)   Parcels Previously Divided. Any parcelThe preliminary plat shall include within its boundary all parcels of
      property which was originallythat have at any time after July 18, 1960, been part of a the parcel now being
      subdivided and/or which was divided off from the parcel being subdivided since July 18, 1960, shall be
      included in the preliminary plat of the proposed subdivision unless it has , except parcels that have already
      been recorded as part ofincluded in another recorded subdivision.
(c)   Transfer Before Approval Prohibited. It shall be unlawful toNo person shall transfer, sell, convey, gift, or assign
      any subdivided property as defined in this chapter before a final subdivision plat is approved by the City and
      recorded with the Salt Lake County Recorder’s Office, except with City consent granted and documented
      according to Utah Code pursuant to the requirements of this chapter and applicable state law.
(d)   Approval to Amend Plat Required. It shall be unlawful toNo person shall amend, vacate, alter, or modify any
      plat which has already been approved and/or recorded without first receiving City approval.
(e)   Lot Remnants Prohibited. It shall be unlawful toNo person shall divide real property in such a way that a parcel
      of property is created or left behind (lot remnant) that cannot be developed according to the requirements
      of this tTitle or other applicable laws, regardless of whether or not a subdivision plat is required for the
      division. Examples of this type of violation include, but are not limited to, nuisance or protection strips (other
      than those allowed by law), parcels created or left for the sole purpose of denying another property owner
      access to his property, parcels with insufficient square footage, parcels with insufficient buildable area,
      parcels that do not meet the sensitive area requirements of this title, and parcels that do not abut on a
      dedicated street.
(f)   Lot of Record. A single-lot subdivision plat is not required prior to development on any parcel of property that
      was created prior to July 18, 1960, and has remained intact since that date. However, development on the
      parcel must comply with all regulations of the zone district. Review for necessary improvements from Public
      Works, Public Utilities, Parks and Recreation, and Community Development Departments shall be required
      prior to issuance of building permit.
(LDC 2008, § 15A-30-02; Ord. No. 21-08 , § 1(Exh. A), 3-23-2021)

State law reference(s)—Plats required, U.C.A. 1953, § 10-9a-602.

Sec. 21-30-3. Preliminary and Final Subdivision Application Review Process.
(a)   Initial Staff Review. To help expedite review of a development proposal, prior to submitting an application for
      subdivision review, persons interested in undertaking development may meet informally with members of
      the Community Development Department to become acquainted with the substantive and procedural
      requirements of this Title, applicable City Code, and Sandy City Standard Specifications.
(b)   Development Review Meeting. It is strongly recommended that the applicant attend a pre-application meeting
      where the development proposal will be reviewed by the Development Review Team. At the meeting,
      representatives from various departments will provide initial feedback on the concept plan along with copies,
      links, or instructions for accessing the applicable land use regulations, a list of standards, and preliminary and
      final subdivision application checklists.




                                                      Page 2 of 21
                                                  Exhibit “A”

(c)   Neighborhood Meeting. A neighborhood meeting is required to be held after notice is provided in compliance
      with Title 21, Chapter 36, Notice Requirements, and prior to making a determination on a preliminary
      subdivision plat application. This meeting is conducted by staff for the purpose of providing information to
      the public and gathering public comments prior to a land use decision being made by the land use authority.
(d)   Preliminary and Final Subdivision Application Review.
      (1)   Complete Preliminary and Final Subdivision Applications Required.
            a.     A preliminary subdivision application will not be accepted until staff has determined it is
                   complete.
            b.     A final subdivision application will not be accepted until preliminary subdivision approval has
                   been granted and staff has determined the final subdivision application is complete and
                   complies with the requirements of this Chapter and preliminary subdivision approval.
      (2)   Review Cycle. If the application is complete, the review cycle will commence with City staff.
            a.     Upon submittal of a preliminary or final subdivision application and supporting information the
                   application shall be forwarded to the reviewing departments and agencies who shall perform an
                   initial review to verify that the application, subdivision plans, and supporting information are
                   complete and comply with applicable Sandy City Code, and the Sandy City Standard
                   Specifications and Details for Municipal Construction.
            b.     Upon completion of the staff review, the City will inform the applicant of deficiencies,
                   comments, corrections, and requirements, including required additional information and
                   studies that need to be addressed.
            c.     The applicant shall complete the review cycle by submitting the additional information and the
                   modified subdivision plat and plans. In addition, they shall provide a written explanation in
                   response to the City’s review comments, identifying and explaining the applicant's revisions and
                   reasons for declining to make revisions, if any. The applicant's written explanation shall be
                   comprehensive and specific, including a response to each requested revision or required
                   correction. If an applicant fails to address a review comment in the response, the review cycle is
                   not complete and the subsequent review cycle may not begin until all comments are addressed.
            d.     If needed, additional review cycles will commence when the applicant resubmits revised
                   application materials, plans, and supporting information to the City. No further review cycles are
                   needed if all departments and agencies verify that the preliminary or final review standard is
                   met as described in Subsection (e) and (f) of this Section.
      (3)   Failure to submit complete information will result in written notification to the applicant that the
            review cannot proceed further until all required, necessary, and requested information is submitted.
(e)   Preliminary Subdivision Review Approval.
      (1)   Land Use Authority Designation. When the preliminary subdivision plat has been determined to be
            complete and in compliance with all requirements, the plat, together with all supporting information,
            will be forwarded to the Director or Planning Commission for review at a public meeting.
            a.     Director. The Director shall consider and make a determination on all preliminary subdivision
                   plat proposals except those determined by the Planning Commission, as set forth in Subsection
                   (e)(1)(b) of this Section. The Director, at their sole discretion, may refer any preliminary
                   subdivision plat proposal to the Planning Commission.
            b.     Planning Commission. The Planning Commission shall consider and make a determination on all
                   preliminary subdivision plat proposals that include any of the following:
                   1.    More than 10 lots;




                                                    Page 3 of 21
                                                  Exhibit “A”

                   3     The dedication and improvement of a new, or an extension of an existing, public or private
                         street (this does not apply to proposals that only dedicates and/or improves frontage on
                         an existing public or private street);
                   4.    An overlay zone, special exception, waiver or associated application that requires
                         Planning Commission review;
                   5.    A written public comment that objects to, or contains claims of a negative impact from,
                         the proposed subdivision; or
                   6.    A referral by the Director to the Planning Commission.
      (2)   Land Use Authority Determination. The Land Use Authority shall review the preliminary plat and all
            supporting documents and plans to determine if they are complete and substantially comply, or can be
            conditioned to substantially comply, with Sandy City Code, and the Sandy City Standard Specifications
            and Details for Municipal Construction, as applicable to preliminary plat review.
      (3)   Appeal. The decision of the Land Use Authority may be appealed according to applicable provisions of
            this Title.
(f)   Final Subdivision Review Approval.
      (1)   Director Review. The Director shall review the final plat, plans and all supporting documents to
            determine if they are complete, comply with all conditions of approval, Sandy City Code, and the Sandy
            City Standard Specifications and Details for Municipal Construction.
            a.     The Director shall also ensure the following items have been completed, unless the Director
                   determines they are not applicable:
                   1.    Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) and Notice of Intent (NOI) are required
                         according to the requirements identified in Sandy City Standard Specifications.
                   2.    Post Construction Storm Water Maintenance Agreements are required according to
                         requirements identified in Sandy City Standard Specifications. For residential
                         development, the agreement shall be referenced in and recorded with the restrictive
                         covenants of the Homeowners' Association.
                   3.    Approval letters from applicable agencies and districts, such as Sandy City Public Utilities
                         Department, Water Reclamation District, Sewer District, Utah Department of
                         Transportation, Irrigation Canal, or Ditch Company.
                   4.    Signed and notarized Improvement Agreement and Agreement to Conditions.
                   5.    A guarantee for improvements according to the requirements of Title 21 Chapter 2,
                         Improvement Completion Assurance (Guarantee).
                   6.    The final plat has been approved by the Salt Lake County Recorder’s Office.
                   7.    All construction drawings have been approved by all applicable City Departments.
                   8.    All applicable development fees have been paid.
      (2)   Final Plat. Upon completion of final review, the applicant shall submit the final plat drawn with
            waterproof black ink on Mylar sheets to the Community Development Department. The final plat will
            be signed by each person or entity that is required by the Utah Code Annotated or elsewhere in this
            Title.
      (3)   Land Use Authority Designation and Determination. The Mayor shall grant final subdivision approval
            upon recommendation from the Director that the final plat, plans, and documents are complete,
            comply with all conditions of approval, Sandy City Code, Sandy City Standard Specifications and Details
            for Municipal Construction, and all applicable fees have been paid. The Mayor shall deny final
            subdivision approval if the Mayor finds that the final plat and documents do not comply with all


                                                   Page 4 of 21
                                                   Exhibit “A”

            applicable City ordinances, or fees have not been paid. In the event of denial for unpaid fees, the
            applicant may pay the fees within twenty (20) business days and request reconsideration.
      (4)   Appeal. The decision of the Mayor may be appealed according to the applicable provisions of this Title.
      (5)   Plat Recordation. The developer shall be responsible for plat recordation with the Salt Lake County
            Recorder's Office. In addition, an electronic copy of the recorded subdivision plat shall be returned to
            Sandy City prior to the issuance of any building permits.
      (6)   Completion of Subdivision Development. The property must be developed, and the improvements
            constructed in strict compliance with the approved final plat, approved construction drawings, and the
            Sandy City Standard Specifications and Details for Municipal Construction. Failure to note any
            improvement required by this Chapter on the final plat or the construction drawings shall not eliminate
            the developer's responsibility to complete those improvements in the subdivision.

Sec 21-30-4. Preliminary and Final Subdivision Application Contents.
(a)   General Subdivision Application Contents. All applications for preliminary and final subdivision review shall be
      submitted to the Community Development Department and shall include the following:
      (1)   Electronic copies in PDF format of all plans and documents required in this Chapter unless the Director
            determines they are not applicable. All plans shall be submitted together as one set, and all documents
            shall be submitted together as another set as required by the subdivision review checklist that is
            available from the Community Development Department.
      (2)   Payment of all applicable fees.
      (3)   All necessary documents, reports, maps, etc., as required for developments located within an Overlay
            Zone.
(b)   Preliminary Subdivision Application Contents. An application for preliminary subdivision review shall comply
      with all applicable City Code, and shall include the following information:
      (1)   Document Set. The following shall be submitted in the document set:
            a.     General Development Application Form with property owner signature, and a project
                   description narrative.
            b.     Preliminary title report prepared by a title company. The title report shall have an "effective
                   date" that is no more than three (3) months old at the time the preliminary subdivision
                   application is submitted. The title report legal description shall match exactly the boundary
                   description on the proposed recording plat.
            c.     Preliminary Storm Water Analysis Report according to the requirements identified in Sandy City
                   Standard Specifications.
            d.     Infiltration Report according to the requirements identified in Sandy City Standard
                   Specifications. Infiltration shall be measured in the field at the same location and depth as the
                   proposed retention (or infiltration) facility using the double ring infiltrometer test.
            e.     Geotechnical Investigation Report according to the requirements identified in Sandy City
                   Standard Specifications.
            f.     Traffic Impact Study or Trip Generation Report prepared by a certified professional
                   transportation engineer.
            g.     Any other documents related to the development that the City may reasonably require and
                   those shown in other applicable Chapters.




                                                    Page 5 of 21
                                            Exhibit “A”

(2)   Plan Set. The subdivision plan set shall be drawn to a standard engineer’s scale and formatted to a print
      size of 24 inches by 36 inches. The scale must be indicated on each sheet and shall not be less than
      one-inch equals 60 feet. The following shall be included in the plan set:
      a.    The preliminary plat shall include information from the subdivision plat template (available from
            the Community Development Department) and contain the following:
            1.     Date, scale, and arrow indicating north drawn on each sheet.
            2.     The proposed name of the subdivision as approved by the Salt Lake County Recorder’s
                   Office.
            3.     The names and contact information of the property owners, the developer, and the
                   engineer or surveyor of the proposed subdivision.
            4.     The names of current owners, and the property lines of all parcels or lots immediately
                   adjoining the proposed subdivision.
            5.     The subdivision boundary lines showing the proper bearings and dimensions, which lines
                   shall be of heavier line weight than any other lines on the drawing and which shall be
                   referenced to two monuments.
            6.     The boundary lines, dimensions, and legal description of the parcel to be subdivided,
                   including public and private streets with centerline descriptions.
            7.     The bearings, dimensions, and square footage of each lot.
            8.     The bearings, dimensions, and locations of existing and proposed easements.
            9.     The location and dimensions of existing and proposed secondary water systems (including
                   ditches and canals).
            10.    A Certificate of Survey with a metes and bounds description, the signature of a land
                   surveyor licensed in the State of Utah, and the land surveyor’s seal.
            11.    A notice of all covenants, conditions, and other restrictions which may be relevant and
                   applicable to the property contained within the final plat.
            12.    An Owners Dedication with signature lines for all property owners and others who may
                   have a financial interest in the subdivision acknowledged by a notary public, as required
                   by the Salt Lake County Recorder’s Office and Sandy City.
            13.    A signature block for appropriate signatures from the following: The Land Use Authority,
                   Salt Lake Valley Health Department, City Engineer, and Chief Engineer of Public Utilities
                   Department, Director of Parks and Recreation Department, City Attorney, and the Mayor
                   with attestation by the City Recorder.
            14.    Other signature approval blocks as may be needed or as required by Utah Code.
            15.    All requirements of the Sensitive Area Overlay Zone, including, but not limited to, location
                   of known earthquake faults and their respective zones of deformation, hillside slopes
                   greater than 30 percent, etc.
            16.    A clear delineation of any common, limited common and private areas when shared
                   ownership applies to the plat, such as property ownership associations, condominium
                   plats and planned unit developments.
            17.    Tabulations showing:
                    i.      Total number of acres in the proposed development.
                    ii.     Total number of lots or units.



                                             Page 6 of 21
                                                  Exhibit “A”

            b.    Record of Survey that was filed with the Salt Lake County Surveyor’s Office for this property.
            c.    Site Plan overlayed with the proposed plat showing the dimensions and locations of all existing
                  and proposed improvements and structures, and all topographical and environmental features
                  as required by the Sensitive Aea Overlay, within and adjacent to the plat boundaries. A notation
                  shall be made as to whether the existing structures within and adjacent to the plat will remain
                  or be demolished.
            d.    Storm Water Drainage Plan meeting requirements in Sandy City Standard Specifications. These
                  plans include, but are not limited to, required design details and information of existing and
                  proposed post-construction storm water quality facilities, retention and detention facilities,
                  culverts, ditches, drainpipes, and invert elevations of storm water drainage pipes at proposed
                  connections points.
            e.    Grading Plan showing existing and proposed contour lines at two-foot intervals, excavations,
                  fills, grading, and limits of disturbance. Existing contours shall extend a minimum of 25 feet
                  beyond the property line.
            f.    Roadway Plan, road profiles and typical road sections that include the location, widths,
                  centerline descriptions, and names of all existing and proposed public and private streets, alleys,
                  access easements, trails, or other public ways within or directly adjacent to the property; and
                  other important features, such as railroad rights-of-ways, and City boundary lines.
            g.    Utility plan that includes the location of existing and proposed utility easements, fire hydrants,
                  streetlights, water mains and services, sanitary sewers, and stormwater facilities.
            h.    Master plan showing how undeveloped property adjacent to the proposed subdivision could be
                  developed, by showing the location of the subdivision as it forms part of a larger developable
                  area with a conceptual future street system and lot layout.
            i.    Any other plans related to the development that the City may reasonably require and those
                  shown in other applicable Chapters.
(c)   Final Subdivision Application Contents. An application for final subdivision review shall comply with all
      applicable City Code, and shall include the following information:
      (1)   Document Set. The document set shall contain all the information from preliminary review with the
            following additional information:
            a.    A written response to all corrections and redlines from preliminary review.
            b.    Title report prepared by a title company that coincides with the owners' signatures on the final
                  plat. The title report shall have an "effective date" that is no more than three (3) months old at
                  the time the final subdivision application is submitted. The title report legal description shall
                  match exactly the boundary description on the proposed recording plat.
            c.    Documents evidencing conveyances or consents from property owners within the subdivision
                  when such are required by law.
            d.    Final Storm Water Analysis Report according to the requirements identified in Sandy City
                  Standard Specifications.
            e.    The proposed restrictive covenants of the Homeowners’ or Commercial Owners’ Association.
            f.    Any other documents related to the development that the City may reasonably require and
                  those shown in other applicable Chapters.
      (2)   Plan Set. The subdivision plan set shall contain all the information from preliminary review with the
            following additional information:




                                                   Page 7 of 21
                                                    Exhibit “A”

             a.     The entire plan set shall have the designing engineer's State license seal stamped on all
                    submitted plan sheets.
             b.     The final plat shall include:
                    1.     The name of the subdivision as approved by the Salt Lake County Recorder's Office.
                    2.     Lot numbers, approved street names with intersection coordinates as determined by
                           staff, and street addresses of which numbering shall be in accordance with the City street
                           numbering system, as designated by staff.

Sec. 21-30-5. Expiration.
(a)   Validity of Preliminary Plat Approval.
      (1)    Preliminary plat approval is valid for two years. The Director may grant two one-year extensions of the
             preliminary plat provided the plat still complies with all applicable ordinances. The Director may hold
             a public meeting to consider the proposal prior to their decision.
      (2)    If a final plat, which covers only a phase of the preliminary plat is recorded within the two-year time
             limit or extension thereof, the validity of the unrecorded portion of the preliminary plat may be
             extended by the Director for one year from the date of recording that final plat.
(b)   Validity of Final Plat Approval. The final plat shall expire and be void one year after approval by the Mayor
      unless the plat has been recorded. The Director may grant two six-month extensions of the final plat provided
      the final plat still complies with all applicable ordinances.

Sec. 21-30-6. Changes to Final Plat.
(a)   Minor Changes. The Director may approve minor changes to approved final plats before the plat is recorded.
      The types of minor changes contemplated by this Section include legal description mistakes, minor boundary
      changes, decrease in the number of lots in the subdivision, and items that should have been included on the
      original final plat.
(b)   Major Changes. Major changes to unrecorded approved final plats shall be reviewed by the land use authority
      that approved the preliminary plat. If the Director determines the changes are substantially different from
      the original approval, the developer must apply for an amendment to the original preliminary plat. The types
      of major changes contemplated by this Section include a change to the grade or location of streets within the
      subdivision, an increase to the number of lots in the subdivision, or a substantial alteration of the original
      subdivision design. Changes to recorded final plats shall be in accordance with state law and any policies or
      procedures adopted by the City.

Sec. 21-30-3. Application and Review Process.
(a)   Initial Staff Review. To help expedite review of a development proposal, prior to submitting an application for
      subdivision review, persons interested in undertaking development may meet informally with members of the
      Community Development Department to become acquainted with the substantive and procedural
      requirements of this title.
(b)   Development Review. The development proposal shall be reviewed at a Development Review Meeting. At the
      meeting, the various departments will initially assess the proposal and information submitted and make
      suggestions to the prospective developer with respect to the proposal's compliance with the provisions of the
      appropriate regulations of this title, the International Building Code, and any other applicable ordinances or
      codes of Sandy City, and provide some information concerning the City's review requirements and procedures.
      They will also determine the departments and agencies that will need to review the proposal.




                                                    Page 8 of 21
                                                      Exhibit “A”

(c)   Application. An application for subdivision development must be submitted to the Community Development
      Department and must contain the information and be in the format required by the Subdivision Review
      Checklist available from the Community Development Department. The application shall include the following:
      (1)   General Development Application Form.
      (2)   Full size (24-inch by 36-inch) copies of the plat and one 8½-inch by 11-inch reduction to be determined
            on a case-by-case basis.
      (3)   All documents required in this chapter.
      (4)   Payment of all applicable fees.
      (5)   All necessary documents, reports, maps, etc., as required for developments located within an Overlay
            Zone or a Planned Unit Development (PUD) Zone.
      (6)   The preliminary plat shall be drawn on standard drafting medium to a standardized scale. The scale must
            be indicated on each sheet, but shall not be less than one inch equals 60 feet.
      (7)   The preliminary plat shall contain the following:
            a.    An arrow indicating north drawn on each sheet.
            b.   The proposed name of the subdivision. The subdivision name shall be authorized by the Salt Lake
                 County Recorder's Office.
            c.   The names and addresses of the property owners, the developer, and the engineer or surveyor of
                 the proposed subdivision.
            d.   The names and addresses of current owners of all parcels immediately adjoining the proposed
                 subdivision and the boundary lines of such parcels as may be required by the Director.
            e.    Existing and proposed contours drawn at two-foot intervals. Existing contours shall extend a
                  minimum of 25 feet beyond the property line.
            f.    The boundary lines of the parcel to be subdivided.
            g.    The dimensions and square footage of each lot.
            h.   The dimensions and locations of existing and proposed improvements, structures, easements, and
                 topographical features within the parcel to be subdivided.
            i.    The location and dimensions of existing and proposed farm or garden irrigation systems (including
                  ditches and canals).
            j.    Where the preliminary plat covers only a part of a larger developable area, the plat shall show the
                  location of the subdivision as it forms part of the larger area. A conceptual plan may be required
                  showing a possible future street system and lot layout.
            k.   Storm Water Analysis and Drainage Plans shall meet requirements in Sandy City Standard
                 Specifications.
            l.    The location and nature of development within and adjacent to the preliminary plat boundaries. A
                  notation shall be made as to whether or not the existing structures within and adjacent to the plat
                  will remain or be demolished.
            m.    Two copies of the preliminary Grading and Drainage Plan.
            n.   Two copies of the Roadway Plan and profile sheets.
      (8)   Tabulations showing:
            a.    Total number of acres in the proposed development.
            b.   Total number of lots or buildings sites.


                                                      Page 9 of 21
                                                    Exhibit “A”

      (9)   The following documents shall be included with the application:
            a.    An application request for a proposed change to any existing zone boundaries or any zone
                  classification which is necessary for approval of the proposed subdivision.
            b.    Any other documents related to the development that the City may reasonably require.
      (10) Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) and Notice of Intent (NOI) are required according to the
           requirements identified in Sandy City Standard Specifications.
      (11) Post Construction Storm Water Maintenance Agreements are required according to requirements
           identified in Sandy City Standard Specifications.
(d)   Preliminary Subdivision Review.
      (1)   If, prior to submitting the application for subdivision review, it is determined that the applicant has not
            attended a Development Review Meeting, staff may request that the applicant do so in order to expedite
            the orderly review of the proposal before proceeding to the subsequent stages of review.
      (2)   Upon submittal of an application and supporting information and attendance at a Development Review
            Meeting, if necessary, the preliminary subdivision plat shall be forwarded to the reviewing departments
            and agencies who shall review it preliminarily to determine if the plat, together with all supporting
            information, is complete and complies with all the requirements of this title and other applicable City
            and agencies' standards.
            a.    If the departments' and agencies' reviews determine that all required, necessary, and requested
                  information has not been submitted or that some of the specifics of the plan or information do not
                  comply with the requirements of this title, the applicant shall be notified in writing and/or on the
                  plat of any deficiencies, comments, corrections, and requirements (including additional
                  information and/or studies) to be addressed. The revised plat and all required, necessary and
                  requested supporting information must be resubmitted after the appropriate additions and/or
                  corrections are made in order to complete the application.
            b.    Upon resubmittal, the preliminary subdivision plat will again be forwarded to the reviewing
                  departments and agencies. The applicant shall be required to resubmit the plan and supporting
                  documents to the City until all departments and agencies determine it is complete and complies
                  with the requirements of this title and other applicable City and agencies' standards. Failure to
                  submit complete information will result in written notification to the applicant that the review
                  cannot proceed further until all required, necessary, and requested information is submitted.
(e)   Planning Commission Review.
      (1)   When the preliminary subdivision plat has been determined to be complete and in compliance with all
            requirements, the plat, together with all supporting information, will be forwarded to the Planning
            Commission for review at a public meeting.
      (2)   The Planning Commission shall review the plat, including all supporting information, to determine if all
            appropriate impacts have been addressed and to receive public input, concerning impacts and
            mitigation. The Planning Commission may require additional studies/analyses to enable it to determine
            what impacts should be addressed and may establish additional requirements to address those
            anticipated impacts.
(f)   Validity of Preliminary Plat Review.
      (1)   Preliminary plat review is valid for two years. The Director may grant two one-year extensions of the
            preliminary plat provided the plat still complies with all applicable ordinances. No person or entity
            obtains a vested right to develop the property by reason of obtaining preliminary plat review. The
            Director may hold a public hearing or meeting to consider the proposal prior to his decision.




                                                     Page 10 of 21
                                                     Exhibit “A”

      (2)   If a final plat which covers only a portion of the preliminary plat is recorded within the two-year time
            limit or extension thereof, the validity of the unrecorded portion of the preliminary plat may be extended
            by the Director for one year from the date of recording that final plat.
      (3)   If the developer desires to change the grade or location of streets within the subdivision, or desires to
            increase the number of lots in the subdivision, or substantially alters the original subdivision design, the
            developer must apply for an amendment to the original preliminary plat.
      (4)   The Director may, at his discretion, approve changes to the preliminary plat to decrease the number of
            lots in the subdivision, to make minor lot boundary changes, or to make other minor changes without
            requiring that it be reviewed by the Planning Commission.
(g)   Final Subdivision Review.
      (1)   After review by the departments, agencies, and Planning Commission, the applicant shall submit a final
            subdivision plat, together with all supporting documents which comply with all requirements,
            corrections, additions, etc., required by the departments, agencies and Planning Commission to the
            Community Development Department.
      (2)   The following documents and information shall be submitted for final subdivision review:
            a.    Full size (24-inch by 36-inch) copies of the plat, as determined on a case-by-case basis.
            b.    All documents required in this chapter.
            c.    Signed and recorded Post-Construction Storm Water Maintenance Agreement, where required.
                  The agreement is to be recorded after completion of the project. For residential development, the
                  agreement shall be referenced in and recorded with the restrictive covenants of the Homeowners'
                  Association.
            d.    If required to be reviewed by Planning Commission, the applicant shall submit at least 12 full size
                  (24-inch by 36-inch) copies and one reduced copy (eight and one-half-inch by 11-inch).
            e.    The final plat shall be drawn on a Mylar sheet approved by the Salt Lake County Plat Division.
            f.    The final plat shall be drawn with all lines, dimensions, and markings made in waterproof black
                  drawing ink.
            g.    The final plat shall be drawn to a standardized scale. The scale shall be indicated on the plat and
                  shall not be less than one-inch equals 60 feet.
            h.    The final plat shall contain the following:
                  1.    An arrow indicating north on each sheet.
                  2.    The name of the subdivision as approved by the Salt Lake County Recorder's Office.
                  3.    The subdivision boundary lines showing the proper bearings and dimensions, which lines
                        shall be of heavier line weight than any other lines on the drawing and which shall be
                        referenced to two monuments.
                  4.    The names, widths, lengths, bearings, and curve data of all areas intended for public use.
                  5.    Lot numbers, approved street names with intersection coordinates as determined by staff,
                        and street addresses of which numbering shall be in accordance with the City street
                        numbering system, as designated by staff.
                  6.    The bearings, dimensions, and square footage of each lot.
                  7.    The bearings, dimensions, and locations of all easements within the subdivision.
                  8.    A Certificate of Survey with a metes and bounds description, the signature of a land surveyor
                        licensed in the State of Utah, and the land surveyor's seal.



                                                      Page 11 of 21
                                                    Exhibit “A”

                  9.    An Owners Dedication with signatures from all property owners and others who may have a
                        financial interest in the subdivision acknowledged by a notary public, as required by the Salt
                        Lake County Recorder's Office and Sandy City.
                  10.   A notice of all covenants, conditions, and other restrictions which may be relevant and
                        applicable to the property contained within the final plat.
                  11.   A Planning Commission's approval block for the signature of the Planning Commission
                        Chairperson.
                  12.   A Salt Lake Valley Health Department approval block for appropriate signature.
                  13.   City Engineer and Public Utilities Department signature blocks.
                  14.   A City Attorney's approval block for the signature of the Sandy City Attorney.
                  15.   An approval block for the signatures of the Mayor and attestation by the City Recorder.
                  16.   Other signature approval blocks as may be needed.
                  17.   All requirements of the Sensitive Area Overlay Zone upon the plat, including, but not limited
                        to, location of known earthquake faults and their respective zones of deformation, hillside
                        slopes greater than 30 percent, etc.
            i.    The following documents shall be submitted with the final plat:
                  1.    Construction drawings showing existing ground and/or asphalt elevations, planned grades
                        and elevations of proposed improvements, and the location of all public utilities.
                        Improvements shown on the construction drawings shall be in accordance with the
                        preliminary plat. The City may adopt a policy governing additional requirements for
                        construction drawings. All construction drawings shall have the designing engineer's State
                        license seal stamped on all submitted sheets. No final plat shall be approved by the Mayor
                        until the construction drawings have been approved by the City Engineer.
                  2.    Documents evidencing conveyances or consents from property owners within the
                        subdivision when such are required by law.
                  3.    Signed and notarized Improvement Agreement and Agreement to Conditions.
                  4.    A preliminary title report that must coincide with owners' signatures on the final plat.
                  5.    A guarantee for improvements (bond) to cover improvements as required by the City
                        Engineer. Guarantees acceptable to Sandy City include an escrow bond, letter of credit, and
                        cash bond.
                  6.    Any other documents the City may require.
            j.    The property must be developed and the improvements constructed in strict compliance with the
                  approved final plat, approved construction drawings, and the Sandy City Standard Specifications
                  and Details for Municipal Construction. Failure to note any improvement required by this chapter
                  on the final plat or the construction drawings shall not eliminate the developer's responsibility to
                  complete those improvements in the subdivision.
(h)   Final Plat Approval.
      (1)   The Director shall review the final plat and all supporting documents to determine if they are complete
            and comply with all the requirements of all departments, agencies and the Planning Commission. When
            the Director makes the determination that the final subdivision plat is complete and complies with all
            the requirements, the plat will be stamped and signed by the Planning Commission, the Chief Engineer
            of the Public Utilities Department, the City Engineer, the City Attorney, the Mayor, and each of those
            whose signature is required by the Utah Code Annotated or elsewhere in this title.



                                                    Page 12 of 21
                                                        Exhibit “A”

      (2)   The Director shall forward the fully executed final plat to the Mayor for approval.
      (3)   The Mayor shall review the application for final plat approval and consider the recommendations of the
            Planning Commission and shall approve, modify, or deny the plat. The Mayor shall approve the plat if he
            finds that the final plat and documents comply with all applicable City ordinances. The Mayor shall affix
            his signature to the final plat upon approval of the plat, which signature shall be attested to by the City
            Recorder.
      (4)   The developer shall pay all applicable development fees as generated by the City Engineer prior to the
            City releasing the Mylar to be recorded.
      (5)   The developer shall be responsible for plat recordation with the Salt Lake County Recorder's Office. In
            addition, the following shall be returned to Sandy City prior to the issuance of any building permits:
            a.       One Mylar copy of the recorded subdivision plat (full size 24-inch by 36-inch).
            b.       Four full size copies of the recorded subdivision plat (full size 24-inch by 36-inch).
            c.      One letter size (eight and one-half-inch by 11-inch) copy of the recorded subdivision plat.
            d.       An electronic copy of the recorded subdivision plat.
(LDC 2008, § 15A-30-03; Ord. No. 09-13, 5-15-2009; Ord. No. 12-03, 1-27-2012; Ord. No. 15-22, 7-15-2015; Ord. No.
21-08 , § 1(Exh. A), 3-23-2021)

Sec. 21-30-4. Validity of Final Plat Approval.
      The final plat shall expire and be void one year after approval by the Mayor unless the plat has been recorded.
The Director may grant two six-month extensions of the final plat provided the final plat still complies with all
applicable ordinances.
(LDC 2008, § 15A-30-04; Ord. No. 10-01, 1-26-2010; Ord. No. 21-08 , § 1(Exh. A), 3-23-2021)

Sec. 21-30-5. Changes to Final Plat.
      The Community Development, Public Utilities, and Public Works Directors may, in their discretion, approve
minor changes to approved final plats before the plat is recorded. The types of minor changes contemplated by this
section include legal description mistakes, minor boundary changes, and items that should have been included on
the original final plats. Major changes to unrecorded approved final plats shall be reviewed by the Planning
Commission for approval if the Director determines the changes are substantially different from the original
approval. Changes to recorded final plats shall be in accordance with state law and any policies or procedures
adopted by the City.
(LDC 2008, § 15A-30-05; Ord. No. 21-08 , § 1(Exh. A), 3-23-2021)

Sec. 21-30-67. Vacating or Amending a Subdivision Plat; Process.
(a)   Applicability. As set forth in Utah Code, any fee owner of land within a previously platted subdivision may apply
      to have some or all of the subdivision plat vacated or amended. If no new lots are created, the land use
      authority, application and review are as set forth in this Section.
(b)   Land Use Authority Designation; Public Meetings; Notice.
      (1)        Director. The Director is designated to consider and determine subdivision plat amendments for which
                 no public hearing is required.
      (2)    Planning Commission. The Planning Commission is designated to consider and determine subdivision
             plat amendments for which a public hearing is required. A public hearing is required for any of the
             following:




                                                         Page 13 of 21
                                                    Exhibit “A”

             a.     Any owner within the plat objects in writing to the petition within ten days of mailed notification;
             b.     All the owners have not consented to the petition; or
             c.     The City proposes to vacate or amend a subdivision plat.
       (3)   Public Meetings and Notice. A public meeting or hearing shall be held, and notice provided as required
             by this Title and Utah Code. No neighborhood meeting is required.
(c)    Application and Procedure.
       (1)   Preliminary subdivision approval shall not be required before applying for final subdivision approval.
       (2)   The applicant shall file an application that meets all the final subdivision application requirements of
             this Chapter, except as follows:
             a.     Signatures approval blocks shall be limited to the Mayor, the Land Use Authority, and applicable
                    Water and Sewer Districts.
             b.     Other signature approval blocks shall be included as may be needed or as required by Utah Code.
             c.     The subdivision plat shall show only the lots that are being amended, and the property lines of
                    all lots or parcels immediately adjoining the proposed subdivision.
             d.     Any plans or documents that the Director determines are not applicable may be excluded.
(d).   Request for Vacating or Amending a Plat That Includes Public Street, Right-of-Way or Easement. Each request
       to vacate or amend a plat that contains a request to vacate or amend a public street, right-of-way or easement
       is also subject to Section 21-30-8.
(e)    Land Use Authority Determination. The land use authority may vacate, alter, or amend a plat if it finds that:
       (1)   The final amended subdivision plat and documents comply with all applicable provisions of Sandy City
             Code, and Sandy City Standard Specifications and Details for Municipal Construction;
       (2)   All applicable fees have been paid;
       (3)   There is good cause for the vacation, alteration, or amendment;
       (4)   No public street, right-of-way or easement has been vacated or amended;
       (5)   No new lot results from the amendment; and
       (6)   The amendment does not result in an increase of a nonconforming situation.
(f)    Appeal. The decision of the land use authority may be appealed according to applicable provisions of this Title.
(a)    Land Use Authority Designation.
       (1)   Director. The Director is hereby designated to consider and determine those proposed subdivision plat
             vacations or amendments which are set forth in Subsection (b)(5) of this section and which are
             requested by petition of a fee owner of land within the subdivision.
       (2)   Planning Commission. The Planning Commission is hereby designated to, with or without petition,
             consider and determine any proposed vacation or amendment of a subdivision plat except those
             designated in Subsection (a)(1) of this section.
(b)    Request for Amendment.
       (1)   Fee Owner May Petition. Any fee owner of land, as shown on the last county assessment roll, within
             the subdivision that has been laid out and platted as provided in this title may, in writing, petition the
             City to have some or all of the plat vacated or amended as provided in this section.
       (2)   Petition Contents. Each petition to vacate or amend an entire plat or a portion of a plat shall include:




                                                     Page 14 of 21
                                                     Exhibit “A”

            a.     The name and address of all owners of record of the land contained in the entire plat or on that
                   portion of the plat described in the petition; and
            b.     The signature of each of these owners who consents to the petition.
      (3)   Proposal by City. The City may propose to vacate or amend a subdivision plat, which shall be considered
            by the Planning Commission in accordance with the procedures set forth in this section.
      (4)   Requirements for Hearing. The Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing:
            a.     If a petition is filed, within 45 days after the day on which the petition is filed, if:
                   1.     Any owner within the plat objects in writing to the petition within ten days of mailed
                          notification; or
                   2.     A public hearing is required because all of the owners have not consented to the petition.
            b.     If the City proposes to vacate or amend a subdivision plat.
            c.     After notice is given in compliance with Section 21-36-5, or its successor.
      (5)   Public Meeting Required. The public hearing requirement does not apply and an owner's petition to
            vacate or amend a subdivision plat may be considered at a public meeting if:
            a.     The petition seeks to:
                   1.     Join two or more of the petitioner fee owner's contiguous lots;
                   2.     Subdivide one or more of the petitioning fee owner's lots, if the subdivision will not result
                          in a violation of a land use ordinance or a development condition;
                   3.     Adjust the lot lines of adjoining lots or parcels if the fee owners of each of the adjoining
                          lots or parcels join in the petition, regardless of whether the lots or parcels are located in
                          the same subdivision;
                   4.     Adjust an internal lot restriction imposed by the local political subdivision on a lot owned
                          by the petitioning fee owner; or
                   5.     Alter the plat in a manner that does not change existing boundaries or other attributes of
                          lots within the subdivision that are not:
                          (i)    Owned by the petitioner; or
                          (ii)   Designated as a common area; and
            b.     Notice has been given to adjacent property owners in accordance with Section 21-36-5, or its
                   successor.
(c)   Request for Plat Amendment Which Includes Public Street, Right-of-Way or Easement. Each request to vacate
      or amend a plat that contains a request to vacate or amend a public street, right-of-way or easement is also
      subject to Section 21-30-7.
(d)   Changing the Name of a Recorded Subdivision.
      (1)   The name of a recorded subdivision may be changed by amending the plat as set forth herein and
            recording the amended plat making the change.
      (2)   The new name shall not be a duplicate of another subdivision within Salt Lake County.
(e)   Grounds for Vacating or Changing a Plat. The land use authority may vacate, alter, or amend the plat or any
      portion of the plat if it finds that:
      (1)   There is good cause for the vacation, alteration, or amendment; and
      (2)   No public street, right-of-way or easement has been vacated or amended.



                                                     Page 15 of 21
                                                    Exhibit “A”

(f)   Preparing the Amended Plat.
      (1)    The surveyor preparing the amended plat shall certify that the surveyor:
             a.     Holds a license in accordance with the Professional Engineers and Professional Land Surveyors
                    Licensing Act established by state law;
             b.     Has completed a survey of the property described on the plat in accordance with state law and
                    has verified all measurements; and
             c.     Has placed monuments as represented on the plat.
      (2)    If an exchange of title is approved under Subsection (b)(5) of this section, the petitioner shall not be
             required to file an amended plat map but shall comply with Section 21-30-8, or its successor.
      (3)    If the vacation or amendment of the subdivision is approved after compliance with the requirements
             set forth herein, the Planning Commission and the Mayor shall sign the amended plat showing the
             vacation or amendment.
      (4)    The City shall ensure that the amended plat showing the vacation or amendment, and the City Council
             resolution, where required, is recorded in the office of the Salt Lake County Recorder's Office.

(LDC 2008, § 15A-30-06; Ord. No. 12-03, 1-27-2012; Ord. No. 21-08 , § 1(Exh. A), 3-23-2021)
State law reference(s)—Vacating, altering or amending subdivision plat Subdivision Amendments, U.C.A. 1953, § 10-
      9a-608 and 10-9a-609 et seq.

Sec. 21-30-78. Vacating a Public Street, Right-of-Way, or Easement; Within a Subdivision or Not
          Within a Subdivision.
(a)   A petition to vacate some or all of a public street, right-of-way, or easement shall include:
      (1)    The name and address of each owner or record of land that is:
             a.     Adjacent to the public street, right-of-way, or easement; or
             b.     Accessed exclusively by or within 300 feet of the public street, right-of-way, or easement; and
      (2)    The signature of each owner under Subsection (a)(1) of this sSection who consents to the vacation.
(b)   The requirements for vacating a street, right-of-way or public easement shall comply with those set forth in
      Utah Code currently in effect or as it may be amended.
(b)   If a petition is submitted containing a request to vacate some or all of a street, right-of-way, or easement, the
      City Council shall hold a public hearing in accordance with Section 21-30-6 and determine whether:
      (1)    Good cause exists for the vacation; and
      (2)    Neither the public interest nor any person will be materially injured by the proposed vacation.
(c)   The City Council may adopt an ordinance granting a petition to vacate some or all of a public street, right-of-
      way, or easement if the City Council finds that:
      (1)    Good cause exists for the vacation; and
      (2)    Neither the public interest nor any person will be materially injured by the vacation.
(d)   If the City Council adopts an ordinance vacating some or all of a public street, right-of-way, or easement, the
      City Council shall ensure that one or both of the following is recorded in the office of the County Recorder:
      (1)    A plat reflecting the vacation; or
      (2)    An ordinance described in Subsection (c) of this section.



                                                    Page 16 of 21
                                                     Exhibit “A”

(e)   The action of the City Council vacating some or all of a public street, right-of-way, or easement that has been
      dedicated to public use:
      (1)    Operates to the extent to which it is vacated, upon the effective date of the recorded plat, as a
             revocation of the acceptance of and the relinquishment of the City's fee in the vacated street, right-of-
             way, or easement; and
      (2)    May not be construed to impair:
             a.     Any right-of-way or easement of any lot owner; or
             b.     The franchise rights of any public utility.
(LDC 2008, § 15A-30-06.5; Ord. No. 12-03, 1-27-2012; Ord. No. 21-08 , § 1(Exh. A), 3-23-2021)
State law reference(s)—Vacating, altering or amending subdivision plat, U.C.A. 1953, § 10-9a-608 et seq. Petition to
      vacate a public street, U.C.A. 1953, § 10-9a-609.5 et seq.

Sec. 21-30-89. Property Line Adjustments (Exchange of Title).
(a)   Standards. Owners may adjust property lines between adjacent legal parcels that are described by either a
      metes and bounds description (lots within a subdivision plat must follow the amended plat Section 21-30-7)
      or a recorded plat, by exchanging title to portions of those parcels after City approval if:
      (1)    No new dwelling lot or housing unit parcel results from the property line adjustment.
      (2)    The adjoining property owners consent to the property line adjustment.
      (3)    The property line adjustment does not result in remnant land that did not previously exist.
      (4)    The property line adjustment does not result in violation of applicable zoning requirements the City
             Code.
      (5)    The property line adjustment does not result in an increase of a nonconforming situation.
(b)   Application. The owners shall file an application requesting a property line adjustment together with all
      required documents, in electronic PDF format scaled to a print size of 8.5 inches by 11 inches, as follows:
      (1)    Legal Descriptions. Property legal descriptions as follows:
             a.   A legal description for each of the properties that will be affected by the proposed changes, as
                  they currently exist on record with the Salt Lake County Recorder’s Office, including the square
                  footage, and the Salt Lake County parcel number of each property.
             b.   A legal description for each of the properties that will be affected by the proposed change, in their
                  final proposed configuration(s), including the revised square footage.
             c.   Each legal description shall be prepared, stamped certified, and signed by a professional land
                  surveyor that is currently licensed in the State of Utah.
      (2)    Property transfer deed(s). A draft of all deeds that will be used to transfer the fee title ownership of the
             subject properties. They shall include a specific notation as to the purpose of this deed relating to a
             property line adjustment.
      (3)    Notice of Approval. An approval form, as provided by the City, that declares approval of the property
             line adjustment and an acknowledgement of approval by the City.
             a.   Is executed by each owner included in the adjustment;
             b.   Is executed by the Director;
             c.   Contains an acknowledgment for each party executing the notice as required by state law for real
                  property; and



                                                     Page 17 of 21
                                                    Exhibit “A”

             d.   Recites the description of both the original parcels and the parcels created by the property line
                  adjustment.
      (4)    Map Exhibit. A visual depiction reflecting the proposed parcel configuration upon completion of the
             adjustment. It shall contain a north arrow, standard engineer’s scale, bearings and distances, curve
             tables, location of existing structures, easements, setback lines or other information as requested by
             the City.
(c)   Director Review. The Director shall act as the land use authority and, in accordance with the procedures set
      forth in Section 21-30-6(b)(5), review all the documents to determine if they are complete, and that they
      comply with the requirements set forth above. If the Director determines that documents are complete and
      the requested property line adjustment complies with the standards set forth above, the Director will approve
      the property line adjustment.
(d)   Notice of Approval and Conveyance of TitleRecordation. After approval by the Director, the applicant shall:
      (1)    Record the Notice of Approval and approved deeds that convey title with the Salt Lake County
             Recorder’s Office .Prepare a Notice of Approval which:
      a.     Is executed by each owner included in the exchange;
      b.     Is executed by the Director;
      c.     Contains an acknowledgment for each party executing the notice as required by state law for real
             property;
      d.     Recites the description of both the original parcels and the parcels created by the property line
             adjustment.
      (2)    Record a deed which conveys title as approved.
      (32)   Record the Notice of ApprovalProvide digital copies of all recorded documents to the City and provide
             a limited title report or informational report (provided by a title company) of property that was altered,
             showing that the property was properly transferred and configured as approved by the City.
(e)   Expiration of Property Line Adjustment Approval. The property line adjustment notice of approval shall expire
      and be void one year after issuance by the Director unless it has been recorded. The Director may grant two
      six-month extensions of the property line adjustment notice of approval, provided it still complies with all
      applicable ordinances.

(LDC 2008, § 15A-30-07; Ord. No. 12-03, 1-27-2012; Ord. No. 21-08 , § 1(Exh. A), 3-23-2021)


Sec. 21-30-910. Required Subdivision Improvements and Procedures.
(a)   The following improvements are mandatory in all subdivisions and shall be installed by the developer in
      accordance with the City Code, and the Sandy City Standard Specifications and Details for Municipal
      Construction:
      (1)    Street paving (including proper road base).
      (2)    Curbs, gutters, and sidewalks.
      (3)    Drive approaches for each lot.
      (4)    Culinary water systems.
      (5)    Sanitary sewer systems.
      (6)    Surface water runoff drainage systems.
      (7)    City survey monuments.



                                                    Page 18 of 21
                                                   Exhibit “A”

      (8)    Permanent markers to identify lot corners (as required by Sandy City Engineering).
      (9)    Utilities (overhead and underground as required by this tTitle).
      (10)   Street lighting system.
      (11)   ADA ramps.
(b)   The City may also require the developer to install or provide any or all of the following improvements
      according to the particular needs of the subdivision:
      (1)    Fire hydrants.
      (2)    Subsurface water drainage systems.
      (3)    Bridges.
      (4)    Fencing and barrier walls.
      (5)    Grading.
      (6)    Retaining walls.
      (7)    Landscaping, irrigation, tree preservation, removal of noxious vegetation, and/or streetscape.
      (8)    Public facilities.
      (9)    Open space and/or trails.
      (10)   Piping, relocating, or abandoning irrigation ditches.
      (11)   Engineered footings.
      (12)   Extending and constructing roads, water lines and sewer lines beyond the boundary of the subdivision.
      (13)   Flood control system.
      (14)   Regulatory signs.
      (15)   Any other improvements as may be required by the City based upon approvals.
(c)   In determining the particular needs of the subdivision and in determining whether any of the improvements
      specified in Subsection (b) of this sSection should be required in a particular subdivision, the City shall
      consider, among other things:
      (1)    The requirements of the International Building Code, International Residential Code, International Fire
             Code, City ordinances, and the Urban Wildland Interface Code.
      (2)    The topography of the property, the type of soil on the property, the existence of subsurface water
             drainage systems in the vicinity of the property, and the City's Storm Water Drainage Master Plan.
      (3)    The extent to which the proposed subdivision causes or contributes to the need for the improvement.
      (4)    The need for the improvement to protect the health, safety, and welfare of residents of the subdivision
             and the community at large.
      (5)    The types of development and uses adjacent to the subdivision.
(d)   The developer may be required to install off-site improvements when it is shown that the proposed
      subdivision causes or contributes to the need for such improvements. In cases where the proposed
      subdivision causes or contributes to the need for off-site improvements but the developer is not required to
      install them, the City may impose an impact fee as allowed by law, or may otherwise require financial
      contribution pursuant to written agreements between the City and the developer. Whether or not the
      developer actually installs the improvements, the City may require that owners of other undeveloped
      properties, the development of which will also contribute to the need for the improvements, pay impact fees,




                                                    Page 19 of 21
                                                    Exhibit “A”

      or be party to such agreements. The fees or the monies collected pursuant to agreements shall be used
      towards the costs of installing the improvements.
(e)   All required improvements shall be completed and pass City inspections within two years of the date the
      subdivision is approved or at a date to be determined by the City.
(f)   All subdivision improvements shall be completed by qualified contractors in accordance with the Sandy City
      Standard Specifications and Details for Municipal Construction (latest edition). No work may be commenced
      on public improvements without first obtaining approval.
(g)   Unless otherwise authorized by the Director, no building permit for any structure may be issued until the final
      plat has been recorded and the following subdivision improvements have been installed:
      (1)    Street paving (including all weather surface, which is two inches minimum asphalt depth on approved
             road base), unless otherwise approved by the City Engineer and Fire Marshal based upon weather
             constraints.
      (2)    Curb, gutter, and sidewalk.
      (3)    Permanent markers to identify lot corners.
      (4)    Operational fire hydrants (unless otherwise approved by the Fire Marshal).
      (5)    Water lines and facilities (tested and approved) and sewer line facilities.
      (6)    Storm drainage facilities.
(h)   When installing any of the subdivision improvements, the developer and contractors shall be required to keep
      all paved streets, sidewalks, and gutters within or outside the subdivision, free from any debris, trash, mud,
      or dirt from the project. Upon notification by the City of a violation of this provision, the developer and/or
      contractors shall have the affected areas cleaned within 24 hours. If he fails to do so, the City may clean the
      affected areas with the developer providing reimbursement to the City for all costs incurred. Exception: Small
      mounds of dirt placed over the curb, gutter, and sidewalk may be placed during the initial construction phase
      of the home to protect said improvements from damage. However, this exception does not release the
      developer or his successors from the requirement to keep the street clean and free of mud and debris.
(i)   The requirement to install public improvements (e.g., curb, gutter, sidewalk, etc.) may be waived by the
      Planning Commission for properties with design restraints. Cause for such waivers shall be noted on the plat.
(j)   No final subdivision plat shall be recorded until the developer of the subdivision has clearance of all property
      taxes owed upon the parcels to be dedicated to the City and tendered the guarantee and entered into an
      agreement with the City in which the developer agrees to install the improvements as required by this tTitle
      and agrees to indemnify and hold the City harmless from any claims, suits, or judgments arising from the
      condition of property dedicated to the City, from the time that the property is dedicated to the City to the
      time when the improvements on the dedicated property are finally accepted by the City (including the passage
      of the warranty period).
(LDC 2008, § 15A-30-08; Ord. No. 14-29, 9-28-2014; Ord. No. 21-08 , § 1(Exh. A), 3-23-2021)


Sec. 21-30-1011. Improvements Installation Priority.
(a)   Underground utilities, service lines, storm drainage facilities, water system, sewer system including laterals,
      shall be installed and approved prior to the installation of any other street improvements, unless the Public
      Utilities Director or the appropriate governing body waives this requirement in writing.
(b)   All new sewer lines shall be inspected by the appropriate sewer district.
(c)   All new water lines and/or connections shall be inspected by the Public Utilities Department.




                                                    Page 20 of 21
                                                   Exhibit “A”

(d)   All new storm drain facilities shall be inspected by the Public Utilities Department and/or Public Works
      Department.
(e)   All new street lights shall be inspected by the Public Utilities Department.
(LDC 2008, § 15A-30-09; Ord. No. 21-08 , § 1(Exh. A), 3-23-2021)


Sec. 21-30-1112. Costs of Improvements.
      The developer shall pay for all costs of designing, purchasing, installing, warranting, and otherwise providing
the improvements required by this cChapter.
(LDC 2008, § 15A-30-10; Ord. No. 21-08 , § 1(Exh. A), 3-23-2021)


Sec. 21-30-1213. Street Dedication.
       Unless previously dedicated, declared a private street, or located within a planned unit development, the
developer shall dedicate to the City the full width of all street rights-of-way on the final plat; provided, however,
that in cases where a proposed street in the subdivision parallels undeveloped property where no street currently
exists and evidence is provided showing that the owner of the abutting property has no intention of developing it
within the near future, and as may be recommended by the City Engineer and approved by the Planning Commission,
and Mayor, the Mayor may waive the full width dedication requirement and allow the dedication of a lesser width
if he the Mayor finds that it promotes the public interest.
(LDC 2008, § 15A-30-11; Ord. No. 21-08 , § 1(Exh. A), 3-23-2021)


Sec. 21-30-1314. Penalties.
(a)     Any plat of a subdivision filed or recorded without the approvals required by this cChapter is void.
(b)      Any owner or agent of the owner of any land who transfers or sells any land before a plan or plat of the
         subdivision has been approved and recorded as required in this cChapter is guilty of a violation of this
         cChapter for each lot or parcel transferred or sold.
(c)     The description by metes and bounds in the instrument of transfer or other documents used in the process
        of selling or transferring does not exempt the transaction from a violation or from the penalties or remedies
        provided in this cChapter.
(LDC 2008, § 15A-30-12; Ord. No. 21-08 , § 1(Exh. A), 3-23-2021)


Sec. 21-30-1415. Reasonable Diligence.
     The review for application completeness, substantive application review and determination of whether
improvements or warranty work meets standards shall be done in accordance with the standards set forth in the
Municipal Land Use, Development, and Management Act, Part 5 Land Use Ordinances (U.C.A. 1953, § 10-9a-509.5)
(LDC 2008, § 15A-30-13; Ord. No. 21-08 , § 1(Exh. A), 3-23-2021)




                                                    Page 21 of 21
                                                     Exhibit “B”


                             CHAPTER 21-36. NOTICE REQUIREMENTS1

Sec. 21-36-1. General Public Notice Requirements.
(a)   For each land use application which requires a public hearing or public meeting, public notice shall be done
      as provided within this chapter, except as required by Utah State Code.
(b)   For each land use application which requires a public hearing or public meeting, and public notice is not
      specified by Utah State Code, the City shall provide notice (including the type of meeting, date, time,
      location, description of land use application, and City contact information) as follows:
      (1)   Notice of Public Hearing. The City shall provide notice of a public hearing at least three days before the
            hearing that shall be posted in at least three public locations within the City, on the City's official
            website, and on the Utah Public Notice Website.
      (2)   Notice for Public Meetings. The City shall provide notice of a public meeting at least 24 hours before
            the meeting that shall be posted in at least three public locations within the City, on the City's official
            website, and on the Utah Public Notice Website.
(Ord. No. 20-12 , § 1(Exh. A), 10-20-2020)


Sec. 21-36-2. Third-Party Public Notice.
(a)   For each land use application that requires a public meeting or hearing that concerns a specific parcel of
      property, public third-party notice shall be done as provided within this chapter, except as required by Utah
      State Code. The City shall:
      (1)   Mail notice at least five days before the public hearing or public meeting to the record owner of each
            parcel within 500 feet of the property that is the subject of the hearing, including property owners
            within the City boundaries and property owners within adjacent jurisdictions; or
      (2)   Post notice at least ten days before the public hearing or public meeting on the property with a sign of
            sufficient size, durability, print quality, and location that is reasonably calculated to give notice to
            passersby.
            a.    The City shall take a photo verifying that the notice has been posted. The City shall inspect and
                  verify, with another photo, at least one other time during notice period. This verification shall be
                  included in the application packet for the public meeting/hearing.
            b.    This posted notice should include the following: type of meeting, date, time, location, description
                  of land use application, and City contact information.
            c.    If this posted notice is destroyed or disappears during the notice period, the City's ability to hold
                  the public meeting/hearing will not be delayed, and it will not affect the validity of decisions
                  made at the public meeting/hearing.




1
Editor's note(s)—Ord. No. 20-12 , § 1(Exh. A), adopted October 20, 2020, amended Ch. 21-36 in its entirety, in
     effect repealing and reenacting said Ch. 21-36 to read as set out herein. The former Ch. 21-36, §§ 21-36-1—
     21-36-10, pertained to notice requirements and derived from LDC 2008, §§ 15A-36-01, 15A-36-02, 15A-36-
     05, 15A-36-07, 15A-36-09, and 15A-36-10.
State law reference(s)—Notice requirements, U.C.A. 1953, § 10-9a-201 et seq.



                                                       Page 1 of 2
                                                    Exhibit “B”

(b)   The City shall provide both mailed and posted notice in accordance with subsection (a) of this Section, for
      any required public meeting or hearing that involve any one of the following:
      (1)   Rezone;
      (2)   Commercial site plan within 250 feet of a residential zone district boundary; or
      (3)   Subdivision where the Planning Commission is the land use authority.
(c)   For all land use applications that require a neighborhood meeting, the City shall mail a public notice in
      accordance with subsection (a)(1) of this Section.
(Ord. No. 20-12 , § 1(Exh. A), 10-20-2020)


Sec. 21-36-3. State Code Required Notices.
(a)   General Plan.
      See U.C.A. 1953, §§ 10-9a-203 and 10-9a-204.
(b)   Zone District Map and Land Development Code.
      See U.C.A. 1953, § 10-9a-205
(c)   Subdivision Amendments.
      See U.C.A. 1953, § 10-9a-207.
(d)   Street Vacations, Alteration, Amendments or Closure.
      See U.C.A. 1953, § 10-9a-207 and § 10-9a-208.
(e)   Miscellaneous Notice Requirements (Transportation Corridors, Higher Education Housing, Canals, etc).
      See U.C.A. 1953, § 10-9a-206, § 10-9a-210, § 10-9a-211, § 10-9a-212, and § 10-9a-213.
(f)   Applicant Notice—Waiver of Requirements.
      See U.C.A. 1953, § 10-9a-202.
(g)   Notice Challenge.
      See U.C.A. 1953, § 10-9a-209.
(Ord. No. 20-12 , § 1(Exh. A), 10-20-2020)




                                                      Page 2 of 2
                                                     Exhibit “B”


CHAPTER 21-30. SUBDIVISION REVIEW1

Sec. 21-30-1. Purpose.
(a)   The purposes of this Chapter are:
      (1)    To promote the health, safety, and general welfare of City residents;
      (2)    To ensure the efficient and orderly development of land;
      (3)    To prevent the uncontrolled division and development of real property;
      (4)    To avoid poorly planned developments that:
             a.    Do not comply with the General Plan or City ordinances;
             b.    Cannot be efficiently served by existing utilities or public services;
             c.    May prove to be dangerous or unsafe;
             d.    May cause an undue burden on existing traffic or transportation services;
             e.    May require the future expenditure of public funds to correct problems caused by the
                   development;
             f.    Restrict the ability of efficient development on adjoining properties;
      (5)    To minimize the number of boundary line disputes in the City and eliminate existing property line gaps
             and property line overlaps;
      (6)    To establish a mechanism requiring each developer to provide for the public improvements associated
             with a particular subdivision, and provide a mechanism for each subdivision to pay its fair share of
             increased burdens on existing public services;
      (7)    To establish a procedure to ensure the provision of:
             a.    Public improvements, facilities and utilities;
             b.    Access to public rights-of-way;
             c.    The dedication of land and streets deemed necessary for the proper development of the
                   subdivision;
             d.    Easements or rights-of-way that are necessary to service the property.
(b)   This Chapter sets forth the processes for obtaining preliminary and final subdivision development approval,
      as well as vacating or amending a subdivision plat, vacating a public street, right-of-way or easement, property
      line adjustments, and subdivision improvements.
(LDC 2008, § 15A-30-01; Ord. No. 21-08 , § 1(Exh. A), 3-23-2021)

Sec. 21-30-2. Necessity of Subdivision Plat Approval.
(a)   Subdivision Approval Required. Any division of real property located within the City that meets the definition
      of subdivision as set forth in this Title must obtain City subdivision approval before it may be filed or recorded
      at the Salt Lake County Recorder's Office.




1
State law reference(s)—Subdivisions, U.C.A. 1953, § 10-9a-601 et seq.



                                                     Page 1 of 13
                                                    Exhibit “B”

(b)   Parcels Previously Divided. The preliminary plat shall include within its boundary all parcels of property that
      have at any time after July 18, 1960, been part of the parcel now being subdivided, except parcels that have
      already been included in another recorded subdivision.
(c)   Transfer Before Approval Prohibited. No person shall transfer, sell, convey, gift, or assign any subdivided
      property before a final subdivision plat is approved by the City and recorded with the Salt Lake County
      Recorder’s Office, except with City consent granted and documented according to Utah Code .
(d)   Approval to Amend Plat Required. No person shall amend, vacate, alter, or modify any plat which has already
      been approved or recorded without first receiving City approval.
(e)   Lot Remnants Prohibited. No person shall divide real property in such a way that a parcel of property is created
      or left behind (remnant) that cannot be developed according to the requirements of this Title or other
      applicable laws, regardless of whether or not a subdivision plat is required for the division.
(f)   Lot of Record. A single-lot subdivision plat is not required prior to development on any parcel of property that
      was created prior to July 18, 1960, and has remained intact since that date. However, development on the
      parcel must comply with all regulations of the zone district. Review for necessary improvements from Public
      Works, Public Utilities, Parks and Recreation, and Community Development Departments shall be required
      prior to issuance of building permit.
(LDC 2008, § 15A-30-02; Ord. No. 21-08 , § 1(Exh. A), 3-23-2021)

State law reference(s)—Plats required, U.C.A. 1953, § 10-9a-602.

Sec. 21-30-3. Preliminary and Final Subdivision Application Review Process.
(a)   Initial Staff Review. To help expedite review of a development proposal, prior to submitting an application for
      subdivision review, persons interested in undertaking development may meet informally with members of
      the Community Development Department to become acquainted with the substantive and procedural
      requirements of this Title, applicable City Code, and Sandy City Standard Specifications.
(b)   Development Review Meeting. It is strongly recommended that the applicant attend a pre-application meeting
      where the development proposal will be reviewed by the Development Review Team. At the meeting,
      representatives from various departments will provide initial feedback on the concept plan along with copies,
      links, or instructions for accessing the applicable land use regulations, a list of standards, and preliminary and
      final subdivision application checklists.
(c)   Neighborhood Meeting. A neighborhood meeting is required to be held after notice is provided in compliance
      with Title 21, Chapter 36, Notice Requirements, and prior to making a determination on a preliminary
      subdivision plat application. This meeting is conducted by staff for the purpose of providing information to
      the public and gathering public comments prior to a land use decision being made by the land use authority.
(d)   Preliminary and Final Subdivision Application Review.
      (1)    Complete Preliminary and Final Subdivision Applications Required.
             a.    A preliminary subdivision application will not be accepted until staff has determined it is
                   complete.
             b.    A final subdivision application will not be accepted until preliminary subdivision approval has
                   been granted and staff has determined the final subdivision application is complete and
                   complies with the requirements of this Chapter and preliminary subdivision approval.
      (2)    Review Cycle. If the application is complete, the review cycle will commence with City staff.
             a.    Upon submittal of a preliminary or final subdivision application and supporting information the
                   application shall be forwarded to the reviewing departments and agencies who shall perform an
                   initial review to verify that the application, subdivision plans, and supporting information are



                                                     Page 2 of 13
                                                  Exhibit “B”

                   complete and comply with applicable Sandy City Code, and the Sandy City Standard
                   Specifications and Details for Municipal Construction.
            b.     Upon completion of the staff review, the City will inform the applicant of deficiencies,
                   comments, corrections, and requirements, including required additional information and
                   studies that need to be addressed.
            c.     The applicant shall complete the review cycle by submitting the additional information and the
                   modified subdivision plat and plans. In addition, they shall provide a written explanation in
                   response to the City’s review comments, identifying and explaining the applicant's revisions and
                   reasons for declining to make revisions, if any. The applicant's written explanation shall be
                   comprehensive and specific, including a response to each requested revision or required
                   correction. If an applicant fails to address a review comment in the response, the review cycle is
                   not complete and the subsequent review cycle may not begin until all comments are addressed.
            d.     If needed, additional review cycles will commence when the applicant resubmits revised
                   application materials, plans, and supporting information to the City. No further review cycles are
                   needed if all departments and agencies verify that the preliminary or final review standard is
                   met as described in Subsection (e) and (f) of this Section.
      (3)   Failure to submit complete information will result in written notification to the applicant that the
            review cannot proceed further until all required, necessary, and requested information is submitted.
(e)   Preliminary Subdivision Review Approval.
      (1)   Land Use Authority Designation. When the preliminary subdivision plat has been determined to be
            complete and in compliance with all requirements, the plat, together with all supporting information,
            will be forwarded to the Director or Planning Commission for review at a public meeting.
            a.     Director. The Director shall consider and make a determination on all preliminary subdivision
                   plat proposals except those determined by the Planning Commission, as set forth in Subsection
                   (e)(1)(b) of this Section. The Director, at their sole discretion, may refer any preliminary
                   subdivision plat proposal to the Planning Commission.
            b.     Planning Commission. The Planning Commission shall consider and make a determination on all
                   preliminary subdivision plat proposals that include any of the following:
                   1.    More than 10 lots;
                   3     The dedication and improvement of a new, or an extension of an existing, public or private
                         street (this does not apply to proposals that only dedicates and/or improves frontage on
                         an existing public or private street);
                   4.    An overlay zone, special exception, waiver or associated application that requires
                         Planning Commission review;
                   5.    A written public comment that objects to, or contains claims of a negative impact from,
                         the proposed subdivision; or
                   6.    A referral by the Director to the Planning Commission.
      (2)   Land Use Authority Determination. The Land Use Authority shall review the preliminary plat and all
            supporting documents and plans to determine if they are complete and substantially comply, or can be
            conditioned to substantially comply, with Sandy City Code, and the Sandy City Standard Specifications
            and Details for Municipal Construction, as applicable to preliminary plat review.
      (3)   Appeal. The decision of the Land Use Authority may be appealed according to applicable provisions of
            this Title.
(f)   Final Subdivision Review Approval.



                                                    Page 3 of 13
                                                   Exhibit “B”

      (1)   Director Review. The Director shall review the final plat, plans and all supporting documents to
            determine if they are complete, comply with all conditions of approval, Sandy City Code, and the Sandy
            City Standard Specifications and Details for Municipal Construction.
            a.     The Director shall also ensure the following items have been completed, unless the Director
                   determines they are not applicable:
                   1.     Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) and Notice of Intent (NOI) are required
                          according to the requirements identified in Sandy City Standard Specifications.
                   2.     Post Construction Storm Water Maintenance Agreements are required according to
                          requirements identified in Sandy City Standard Specifications. For residential
                          development, the agreement shall be referenced in and recorded with the restrictive
                          covenants of the Homeowners' Association.
                   3.     Approval letters from applicable agencies and districts, such as Sandy City Public Utilities
                          Department, Water Reclamation District, Sewer District, Utah Department of
                          Transportation, Irrigation Canal, or Ditch Company.
                   4.     Signed and notarized Improvement Agreement and Agreement to Conditions.
                   5.     A guarantee for improvements according to the requirements of Title 21 Chapter 2,
                          Improvement Completion Assurance (Guarantee).
                   6.     The final plat has been approved by the Salt Lake County Recorder’s Office.
                   7.     All construction drawings have been approved by all applicable City Departments.
                   8.     All applicable development fees have been paid.
      (2)   Final Plat. Upon completion of final review, the applicant shall submit the final plat drawn with
            waterproof black ink on Mylar sheets to the Community Development Department. The final plat will
            be signed by each person or entity that is required by the Utah Code Annotated or elsewhere in this
            Title.
      (3)   Land Use Authority Designation and Determination. The Mayor shall grant final subdivision approval
            upon recommendation from the Director that the final plat, plans, and documents are complete,
            comply with all conditions of approval, Sandy City Code, Sandy City Standard Specifications and Details
            for Municipal Construction, and all applicable fees have been paid. The Mayor shall deny final
            subdivision approval if the Mayor finds that the final plat and documents do not comply with all
            applicable City ordinances, or fees have not been paid. In the event of denial for unpaid fees, the
            applicant may pay the fees within twenty (20) business days and request reconsideration.
      (4)   Appeal. The decision of the Mayor may be appealed according to the applicable provisions of this Title.
      (5)   Plat Recordation. The developer shall be responsible for plat recordation with the Salt Lake County
            Recorder's Office. In addition, an electronic copy of the recorded subdivision plat shall be returned to
            Sandy City prior to the issuance of any building permits.
      (6)   Completion of Subdivision Development. The property must be developed, and the improvements
            constructed in strict compliance with the approved final plat, approved construction drawings, and the
            Sandy City Standard Specifications and Details for Municipal Construction. Failure to note any
            improvement required by this Chapter on the final plat or the construction drawings shall not eliminate
            the developer's responsibility to complete those improvements in the subdivision.

Sec 21-30-4. Preliminary and Final Subdivision Application Contents.
(a)   General Subdivision Application Contents. All applications for preliminary and final subdivision review shall be
      submitted to the Community Development Department and shall include the following:




                                                    Page 4 of 13
                                                  Exhibit “B”

      (1)   Electronic copies in PDF format of all plans and documents required in this Chapter unless the Director
            determines they are not applicable. All plans shall be submitted together as one set, and all documents
            shall be submitted together as another set as required by the subdivision review checklist that is
            available from the Community Development Department.
      (2)   Payment of all applicable fees.
      (3)   All necessary documents, reports, maps, etc., as required for developments located within an Overlay
            Zone.
(b)   Preliminary Subdivision Application Contents. An application for preliminary subdivision review shall comply
      with all applicable City Code, and shall include the following information:
      (1)   Document Set. The following shall be submitted in the document set:
            a.     General Development Application Form with property owner signature, and a project
                   description narrative.
            b.     Preliminary title report prepared by a title company. The title report shall have an "effective
                   date" that is no more than three (3) months old at the time the preliminary subdivision
                   application is submitted. The title report legal description shall match exactly the boundary
                   description on the proposed recording plat.
            c.     Preliminary Storm Water Analysis Report according to the requirements identified in Sandy City
                   Standard Specifications.
            d.     Infiltration Report according to the requirements identified in Sandy City Standard
                   Specifications. Infiltration shall be measured in the field at the same location and depth as the
                   proposed retention (or infiltration) facility using the double ring infiltrometer test.
            e.     Geotechnical Investigation Report according to the requirements identified in Sandy City
                   Standard Specifications.
            f.     Traffic Impact Study or Trip Generation Report prepared by a certified professional
                   transportation engineer.
            g.     Any other documents related to the development that the City may reasonably require and
                   those shown in other applicable Chapters.
      (2)   Plan Set. The subdivision plan set shall be drawn to a standard engineer’s scale and formatted to a print
            size of 24 inches by 36 inches. The scale must be indicated on each sheet and shall not be less than
            one-inch equals 60 feet. The following shall be included in the plan set:
            a.     The preliminary plat shall include information from the subdivision plat template (available from
                   the Community Development Department) and contain the following:
                   1.    Date, scale, and arrow indicating north drawn on each sheet.
                   2.    The proposed name of the subdivision as approved by the Salt Lake County Recorder’s
                         Office.
                   3.    The names and contact information of the property owners, the developer, and the
                         engineer or surveyor of the proposed subdivision.
                   4.    The names of current owners, and the property lines of all parcels or lots immediately
                         adjoining the proposed subdivision.
                   5.    The subdivision boundary lines showing the proper bearings and dimensions, which lines
                         shall be of heavier line weight than any other lines on the drawing and which shall be
                         referenced to two monuments.




                                                   Page 5 of 13
                                     Exhibit “B”

     6.    The boundary lines, dimensions, and legal description of the parcel to be subdivided,
           including public and private streets with centerline descriptions.
     7.    The bearings, dimensions, and square footage of each lot.
     8.    The bearings, dimensions, and locations of existing and proposed easements.
     9.    The location and dimensions of existing and proposed secondary water systems (including
           ditches and canals).
     10.   A Certificate of Survey with a metes and bounds description, the signature of a land
           surveyor licensed in the State of Utah, and the land surveyor’s seal.
     11.   A notice of all covenants, conditions, and other restrictions which may be relevant and
           applicable to the property contained within the final plat.
     12.   An Owners Dedication with signature lines for all property owners and others who may
           have a financial interest in the subdivision acknowledged by a notary public, as required
           by the Salt Lake County Recorder’s Office and Sandy City.
     13.   A signature block for appropriate signatures from the following: The Land Use Authority,
           Salt Lake Valley Health Department, City Engineer, and Chief Engineer of Public Utilities
           Department, Director of Parks and Recreation Department, City Attorney, and the Mayor
           with attestation by the City Recorder.
     14.   Other signature approval blocks as may be needed or as required by Utah Code.
     15.   All requirements of the Sensitive Area Overlay Zone, including, but not limited to, location
           of known earthquake faults and their respective zones of deformation, hillside slopes
           greater than 30 percent, etc.
     16.   A clear delineation of any common, limited common and private areas when shared
           ownership applies to the plat, such as property ownership associations, condominium
           plats and planned unit developments.
     17.   Tabulations showing:
            i.       Total number of acres in the proposed development.
            ii.      Total number of lots or units.
b.   Record of Survey that was filed with the Salt Lake County Surveyor’s Office for this property.
c.   Site Plan overlayed with the proposed plat showing the dimensions and locations of all existing
     and proposed improvements and structures, and all topographical and environmental features
     as required by the Sensitive Aea Overlay, within and adjacent to the plat boundaries. A notation
     shall be made as to whether the existing structures within and adjacent to the plat will remain
     or be demolished.
d.   Storm Water Drainage Plan meeting requirements in Sandy City Standard Specifications. These
     plans include, but are not limited to, required design details and information of existing and
     proposed post-construction storm water quality facilities, retention and detention facilities,
     culverts, ditches, drainpipes, and invert elevations of storm water drainage pipes at proposed
     connections points.
e.   Grading Plan showing existing and proposed contour lines at two-foot intervals, excavations,
     fills, grading, and limits of disturbance. Existing contours shall extend a minimum of 25 feet
     beyond the property line.
f.   Roadway Plan, road profiles and typical road sections that include the location, widths,
     centerline descriptions, and names of all existing and proposed public and private streets, alleys,



                                      Page 6 of 13
                                                   Exhibit “B”

                   access easements, trails, or other public ways within or directly adjacent to the property; and
                   other important features, such as railroad rights-of-ways, and City boundary lines.
            g.     Utility plan that includes the location of existing and proposed utility easements, fire hydrants,
                   streetlights, water mains and services, sanitary sewers, and stormwater facilities.
            h.     Master plan showing how undeveloped property adjacent to the proposed subdivision could be
                   developed, by showing the location of the subdivision as it forms part of a larger developable
                   area with a conceptual future street system and lot layout.
            i.     Any other plans related to the development that the City may reasonably require and those
                   shown in other applicable Chapters.
(c)   Final Subdivision Application Contents. An application for final subdivision review shall comply with all
      applicable City Code, and shall include the following information:
      (1)   Document Set. The document set shall contain all the information from preliminary review with the
            following additional information:
            a.     A written response to all corrections and redlines from preliminary review.
            b.     Title report prepared by a title company that coincides with the owners' signatures on the final
                   plat. The title report shall have an "effective date" that is no more than three (3) months old at
                   the time the final subdivision application is submitted. The title report legal description shall
                   match exactly the boundary description on the proposed recording plat.
            c.     Documents evidencing conveyances or consents from property owners within the subdivision
                   when such are required by law.
            d.     Final Storm Water Analysis Report according to the requirements identified in Sandy City
                   Standard Specifications.
            e.     The proposed restrictive covenants of the Homeowners’ or Commercial Owners’ Association.
            f.     Any other documents related to the development that the City may reasonably require and
                   those shown in other applicable Chapters.
      (2)   Plan Set. The subdivision plan set shall contain all the information from preliminary review with the
            following additional information:
            a.     The entire plan set shall have the designing engineer's State license seal stamped on all
                   submitted plan sheets.
            b.     The final plat shall include:
                   1.     The name of the subdivision as approved by the Salt Lake County Recorder's Office.
                   2.     Lot numbers, approved street names with intersection coordinates as determined by
                          staff, and street addresses of which numbering shall be in accordance with the City street
                          numbering system, as designated by staff.

Sec. 21-30-5. Expiration.
(a)   Validity of Preliminary Plat Approval.
      (1)   Preliminary plat approval is valid for two years. The Director may grant two one-year extensions of the
            preliminary plat provided the plat still complies with all applicable ordinances. The Director may hold
            a public meeting to consider the proposal prior to their decision.
      (2)   If a final plat, which covers only a phase of the preliminary plat is recorded within the two-year time
            limit or extension thereof, the validity of the unrecorded portion of the preliminary plat may be
            extended by the Director for one year from the date of recording that final plat.



                                                    Page 7 of 13
                                                    Exhibit “B”

(b)   Validity of Final Plat Approval. The final plat shall expire and be void one year after approval by the Mayor
      unless the plat has been recorded. The Director may grant two six-month extensions of the final plat provided
      the final plat still complies with all applicable ordinances.

Sec. 21-30-6. Changes to Final Plat.
(a)   Minor Changes. The Director may approve minor changes to approved final plats before the plat is recorded.
      The types of minor changes contemplated by this Section include legal description mistakes, minor boundary
      changes, decrease in the number of lots in the subdivision, and items that should have been included on the
      original final plat.
(b)   Major Changes. Major changes to unrecorded approved final plats shall be reviewed by the land use authority
      that approved the preliminary plat. If the Director determines the changes are substantially different from
      the original approval, the developer must apply for an amendment to the original preliminary plat. The types
      of major changes contemplated by this Section include a change to the grade or location of streets within the
      subdivision, an increase to the number of lots in the subdivision, or a substantial alteration of the original
      subdivision design. Changes to recorded final plats shall be in accordance with state law and any policies or
      procedures adopted by the City.
(LDC 2008, § 15A-30-05; Ord. No. 21-08 , § 1(Exh. A), 3-23-2021)

Sec. 21-30-7. Vacating or Amending a Subdivision Plat; Process.
(a)   Applicability. As set forth in Utah Code, any fee owner of land within a previously platted subdivision may apply
      to have some or all of the subdivision plat vacated or amended. If no new lots are created, the land use
      authority, application and review are as set forth in this Section.
(b)   Land Use Authority Designation; Public Meetings; Notice.
      (1)    Director. The Director is designated to consider and determine subdivision plat amendments for which
             no public hearing is required.
      (2)    Planning Commission. The Planning Commission is designated to consider and determine subdivision
             plat amendments for which a public hearing is required. A public hearing is required for any of the
             following:
             a.     Any owner within the plat objects in writing to the petition within ten days of mailed notification;
             b.     All the owners have not consented to the petition; or
             c.     The City proposes to vacate or amend a subdivision plat.
      (3)    Public Meetings and Notice. A public meeting or hearing shall be held, and notice provided as required
             by this Title and Utah Code. No neighborhood meeting is required.
(c)   Application and Procedure.
      (1)    Preliminary subdivision approval shall not be required before applying for final subdivision approval.
      (2)    The applicant shall file an application that meets all the final subdivision application requirements of
             this Chapter, except as follows:
             a.     Signatures approval blocks shall be limited to the Mayor, the Land Use Authority, and applicable
                    Water and Sewer Districts.
             b.     Other signature approval blocks shall be included as may be needed or as required by Utah Code.
             c.     The subdivision plat shall show only the lots that are being amended, and the property lines of
                    all lots or parcels immediately adjoining the proposed subdivision.
             d.     Any plans or documents that the Director determines are not applicable may be excluded.



                                                     Page 8 of 13
                                                     Exhibit “B”

(d).   Request for Vacating or Amending a Plat That Includes Public Street, Right-of-Way or Easement. Each request
       to vacate or amend a plat that contains a request to vacate or amend a public street, right-of-way or easement
       is also subject to Section 21-30-8.
(e)    Land Use Authority Determination. The land use authority may vacate, alter, or amend a plat if it finds that:
       (1)   The final amended subdivision plat and documents comply with all applicable provisions of Sandy City
             Code, and Sandy City Standard Specifications and Details for Municipal Construction;
       (2)   All applicable fees have been paid;
       (3)   There is good cause for the vacation, alteration, or amendment;
       (4)   No public street, right-of-way or easement has been vacated or amended;
       (5)   No new lot results from the amendment; and
       (6)   The amendment does not result in an increase of a nonconforming situation.
(f)    Appeal. The decision of the land use authority may be appealed according to applicable provisions of this Title.

(LDC 2008, § 15A-30-06; Ord. No. 12-03, 1-27-2012; Ord. No. 21-08 , § 1(Exh. A), 3-23-2021)
State law reference(s)— Subdivision Amendments, U.C.A. 1953, § 10-9a-608 and 10-9a-609 et seq.

Sec. 21-30-8. Vacating a Public Street, Right-of-Way, or Easement; Within a Subdivision or Not
         Within a Subdivision.
(a)    A petition to vacate some or all of a public street, right-of-way, or easement shall include:
       (1)   The name and address of each owner or record of land that is:
             a.     Adjacent to the public street, right-of-way, or easement; or
             b.     Accessed exclusively by or within 300 feet of the public street, right-of-way, or easement; and
       (2)   The signature of each owner under Subsection (a)(1) of this Section who consents to the vacation.
(b)    The requirements for vacating a street, right-of-way or public easement shall comply with those set forth in
       Utah Code currently in effect or as it may be amended.
(LDC 2008, § 15A-30-06.5; Ord. No. 12-03, 1-27-2012; Ord. No. 21-08 , § 1(Exh. A), 3-23-2021)
State law reference(s)— Petition to vacate a public street, U.C.A. 1953, § 10-9a-609.5 et seq.

Sec. 21-30-9. Property Line Adjustments.
(a)    Standards. Owners may adjust property lines between adjacent legal parcels that are described by a metes
       and bounds description (lots within a subdivision plat must follow the amended plat Section 21-30-7), by
       exchanging title to portions of those parcels after City approval if:
       (1)   No new parcel results from the property line adjustment.
       (2)   The adjoining property owners consent to the property line adjustment.
       (3)   The property line adjustment does not result in remnant land that did not previously exist.
       (4)   The property line adjustment does not result in violation of the City Code.
       (5)   The property line adjustment does not result in an increase of a nonconforming situation.
(b)    Application. The owners shall file an application requesting a property line adjustment together with all
       required documents, in electronic PDF format scaled to a print size of 8.5 inches by 11 inches, as follows:



                                                      Page 9 of 13
                                                    Exhibit “B”

      (1)    Legal Descriptions. Property legal descriptions as follows:
             a.   A legal description for each of the properties that will be affected by the proposed changes, as
                  they currently exist on record with the Salt Lake County Recorder’s Office, including the square
                  footage, and the Salt Lake County parcel number of each property.
             b.   A legal description for each of the properties that will be affected by the proposed change, in their
                  final proposed configuration(s), including the revised square footage.
             c.   Each legal description shall be prepared, stamped certified, and signed by a professional land
                  surveyor that is currently licensed in the State of Utah.
      (2)    Property transfer deed(s). A draft of all deeds that will be used to transfer the fee title ownership of the
             subject properties. They shall include a specific notation as to the purpose of this deed relating to a
             property line adjustment.
      (3)    Notice of Approval. An approval form, as provided by the City, that declares approval of the property
             line adjustment and an acknowledgement of approval by the City.
             a.   Is executed by each owner included in the adjustment;
             b.   Is executed by the Director;
             c.   Contains an acknowledgment for each party executing the notice as required by state law for real
                  property; and
             d.   Recites the description of both the original parcels and the parcels created by the property line
                  adjustment.
      (4)    Map Exhibit. A visual depiction reflecting the proposed parcel configuration upon completion of the
             adjustment. It shall contain a north arrow, standard engineer’s scale, bearings and distances, curve
             tables, location of existing structures, easements, setback lines or other information as requested by
             the City.
(c)   Director Review. The Director shall act as the land use authority and review all the documents to determine if
      they are complete, and that they comply with the requirements set forth above. If the Director determines
      that documents are complete and the requested property line adjustment complies with the standards set
      forth above, the Director will approve the property line adjustment.
(d)   Recordation. After approval by the Director, the applicant shall:
      (1)    Record the Notice of Approval and approved deeds that convey title with the Salt Lake County
             Recorder’s Office .
      (2)    Provide digital copies of all recorded documents to the City and provide a limited title report or
             informational report (provided by a title company) of property that was altered, showing that the
             property was properly transferred and configured as approved by the City.
(e)   Expiration of Property Line Adjustment Approval. The property line adjustment notice of approval shall expire
      and be void one year after issuance by the Director unless it has been recorded. The Director may grant two
      six-month extensions of the property line adjustment notice of approval, provided it still complies with all
      applicable ordinances.

(LDC 2008, § 15A-30-07; Ord. No. 12-03, 1-27-2012; Ord. No. 21-08 , § 1(Exh. A), 3-23-2021)


Sec. 21-30-10. Required Subdivision Improvements and Procedures.
(a)   The following improvements are mandatory in all subdivisions and shall be installed by the developer in
      accordance with the City Code, and the Sandy City Standard Specifications and Details for Municipal
      Construction:


                                                     Page 10 of 13
                                                     Exhibit “B”

      (1)    Street paving (including proper road base).
      (2)    Curbs, gutters, and sidewalks.
      (3)    Drive approaches for each lot.
      (4)    Culinary water systems.
      (5)    Sanitary sewer systems.
      (6)    Surface water runoff drainage systems.
      (7)    City survey monuments.
      (8)    Permanent markers to identify lot corners (as required by Sandy City Engineering).
      (9)    Utilities (overhead and underground as required by this Title).
      (10)   Street lighting system.
      (11)   ADA ramps.
(b)   The City may also require the developer to install or provide any or all of the following improvements
      according to the particular needs of the subdivision:
      (1)    Fire hydrants.
      (2)    Subsurface water drainage systems.
      (3)    Bridges.
      (4)    Fencing and barrier walls.
      (5)    Grading.
      (6)    Retaining walls.
      (7)    Landscaping, irrigation, tree preservation, removal of noxious vegetation, and/or streetscape.
      (8)    Public facilities.
      (9)    Open space and/or trails.
      (10)   Piping, relocating, or abandoning irrigation ditches.
      (11)   Engineered footings.
      (12)   Extending and constructing roads, water lines and sewer lines beyond the boundary of the subdivision.
      (13)   Flood control system.
      (14)   Regulatory signs.
      (15)   Any other improvements as may be required by the City based upon approvals.
(c)   In determining the particular needs of the subdivision and in determining whether any of the improvements
      specified in Subsection (b) of this Section should be required in a particular subdivision, the City shall consider,
      among other things:
      (1)    The requirements of the International Building Code, International Residential Code, International Fire
             Code, City ordinances, and the Urban Wildland Interface Code.
      (2)    The topography of the property, the type of soil on the property, the existence of subsurface water
             drainage systems in the vicinity of the property, and the City's Storm Water Drainage Master Plan.
      (3)    The extent to which the proposed subdivision causes or contributes to the need for the improvement.




                                                     Page 11 of 13
                                                    Exhibit “B”

      (4)    The need for the improvement to protect the health, safety, and welfare of residents of the subdivision
             and the community at large.
      (5)    The types of development and uses adjacent to the subdivision.
(d)   The developer may be required to install off-site improvements when it is shown that the proposed
      subdivision causes or contributes to the need for such improvements. In cases where the proposed
      subdivision causes or contributes to the need for off-site improvements but the developer is not required to
      install them, the City may impose an impact fee as allowed by law, or may otherwise require financial
      contribution pursuant to written agreements between the City and the developer. Whether or not the
      developer actually installs the improvements, the City may require that owners of other undeveloped
      properties, the development of which will also contribute to the need for the improvements, pay impact fees,
      or be party to such agreements. The fees or the monies collected pursuant to agreements shall be used
      towards the costs of installing the improvements.
(e)   All required improvements shall be completed and pass City inspections within two years of the date the
      subdivision is approved or at a date to be determined by the City.
(f)   All subdivision improvements shall be completed by qualified contractors in accordance with the Sandy City
      Standard Specifications and Details for Municipal Construction (latest edition). No work may be commenced
      on public improvements without first obtaining approval.
(g)   Unless otherwise authorized by the Director, no building permit for any structure may be issued until the final
      plat has been recorded and the following subdivision improvements have been installed:
      (1)    Street paving (including all weather surface, which is two inches minimum asphalt depth on approved
             road base), unless otherwise approved by the City Engineer and Fire Marshal based upon weather
             constraints.
      (2)    Curb, gutter, and sidewalk.
      (3)    Permanent markers to identify lot corners.
      (4)    Operational fire hydrants (unless otherwise approved by the Fire Marshal).
      (5)    Water lines and facilities (tested and approved) and sewer line facilities.
      (6)    Storm drainage facilities.
(h)   When installing any of the subdivision improvements, the developer and contractors shall be required to keep
      all paved streets, sidewalks, and gutters within or outside the subdivision, free from any debris, trash, mud,
      or dirt from the project. Upon notification by the City of a violation of this provision, the developer and/or
      contractors shall have the affected areas cleaned within 24 hours. If he fails to do so, the City may clean the
      affected areas with the developer providing reimbursement to the City for all costs incurred. Exception: Small
      mounds of dirt placed over the curb, gutter, and sidewalk may be placed during the initial construction phase
      of the home to protect said improvements from damage. However, this exception does not release the
      developer or his successors from the requirement to keep the street clean and free of mud and debris.
(i)   The requirement to install public improvements (e.g., curb, gutter, sidewalk, etc.) may be waived by the
      Planning Commission for properties with design restraints. Cause for such waivers shall be noted on the plat.
(j)   No final subdivision plat shall be recorded until the developer of the subdivision has clearance of all property
      taxes owed upon the parcels to be dedicated to the City and tendered the guarantee and entered into an
      agreement with the City in which the developer agrees to install the improvements as required by this Title
      and agrees to indemnify and hold the City harmless from any claims, suits, or judgments arising from the
      condition of property dedicated to the City, from the time that the property is dedicated to the City to the
      time when the improvements on the dedicated property are finally accepted by the City (including the passage
      of the warranty period).
(LDC 2008, § 15A-30-08; Ord. No. 14-29, 9-28-2014; Ord. No. 21-08 , § 1(Exh. A), 3-23-2021)



                                                    Page 12 of 13
                                                   Exhibit “B”


Sec. 21-30-11. Improvements Installation Priority.
(a)   Underground utilities, service lines, storm drainage facilities, water system, sewer system including laterals,
      shall be installed and approved prior to the installation of any other street improvements, unless the Public
      Utilities Director or the appropriate governing body waives this requirement in writing.
(b)   All new sewer lines shall be inspected by the appropriate sewer district.
(c)   All new water lines and/or connections shall be inspected by the Public Utilities Department.
(d)   All new storm drain facilities shall be inspected by the Public Utilities Department and/or Public Works
      Department.
(e)   All new street lights shall be inspected by the Public Utilities Department.
(LDC 2008, § 15A-30-09; Ord. No. 21-08 , § 1(Exh. A), 3-23-2021)


Sec. 21-30-12. Costs of Improvements.
      The developer shall pay for all costs of designing, purchasing, installing, warranting, and otherwise providing
the improvements required by this Chapter.
(LDC 2008, § 15A-30-10; Ord. No. 21-08 , § 1(Exh. A), 3-23-2021)


Sec. 21-30-13. Street Dedication.
       Unless previously dedicated, declared a private street, or located within a planned unit development, the
developer shall dedicate to the City the full width of all street rights-of-way on the final plat; provided, however,
that in cases where a proposed street in the subdivision parallels undeveloped property where no street currently
exists and evidence is provided showing that the owner of the abutting property has no intention of developing it
within the near future, and as may be recommended by the City Engineer and approved by the Planning Commission,
the Mayor may waive the full width dedication requirement and allow the dedication of a lesser width if the Mayor
finds that it promotes the public interest.
(LDC 2008, § 15A-30-11; Ord. No. 21-08 , § 1(Exh. A), 3-23-2021)

Sec. 21-30-14. Penalties.
(a)     Any plat of a subdivision filed or recorded without the approvals required by this Chapter is void.
(b)      Any owner or agent of the owner of any land who transfers or sells any land before a plan or plat of the
         subdivision has been approved and recorded as required in this Chapter is guilty of a violation of this
         Chapter for each lot or parcel transferred or sold.
(c)     The description by metes and bounds in the instrument of transfer or other documents used in the process
        of selling or transferring does not exempt the transaction from a violation or from the penalties or remedies
        provided in this Chapter.
(LDC 2008, § 15A-30-12; Ord. No. 21-08 , § 1(Exh. A), 3-23-2021)

Sec. 21-30-15. Reasonable Diligence.
     The review for application completeness, substantive application review and determination of whether
improvements or warranty work meets standards shall be done in accordance with the standards set forth in the
Municipal Land Use, Development, and Management Act, Part 5 Land Use Ordinances (U.C.A. 1953, § 10-9a-509.5)
(LDC 2008, § 15A-30-13; Ord. No. 21-08 , § 1(Exh. A), 3-23-2021)



                                                    Page 13 of 13
                                   Exhibit “C”

                           PROPERTY LINE ADJUSTMENTS
                     Exis ng Code                       Proposed Code
                     Property Line Adjustment           Property Line Adjustment
Applicability        Applies to:                        Applies to:
                     - No new lots                      - No new lots
                     - Adjust property lines between    - Adjust property lines between
                       parcels that are described by      parcels that are described by
                       metes and bounds or on a           metes and bounds only.
                       recorded plat.

Preliminary          N/A                                N/A
Land Use Authority
Final                Director                           Director
Land Use Authority
Public Hearing       N/A                                N/A
Public Mee ng        Public Mee ng                      N/A
Neighborhood         N/A                                N/A
Mee ng
No ce                - Mailed No ce 500’                None
                            OR
                     - Post Property w/No ce

Plat Map             No Plat Required; Other            No Plat Required; Other
                     documenta on required - legal      documenta on required - legal
                     descrip on                         descrip on, map
Standards/Criteria   Criteria under Sec. 21-30-8(a)     Criteria under Sec. 21-30-9(a)
                     1. No new dwelling lot or          1. No new parcel results from
                     housing unit results from the      the property line adjustment.
                     property line adjustment.          2. The adjoining property
                     2. The adjoining property          owners consent to the property
                     owners consent to the property     line adjustment.
                     line adjustment.                   3. The property line adjustment
                     3. The property line adjustment    does not result in remnant land
                     does not result in remnant land    that did not previously exist.
                     that did not previously exist.     4.The adjustment does not
                     4. The adjustment does not         result in viola on of the City
                     result in viola on of applicable   Code.
                     zoning requirements.               5. Adjustment does not result in
                                                        an increase of a nonconforming
                                                        situa on.




                                     Page 1 of 3
                                         Exhibit “C”

                                 SUBDIVISION PLAT AMENDMENTS
                     Exis ng Code                               Proposed Code
                     Subdivision Plat Amendments                Subdivision Plat Amendments
Applicability        Applies to:                                Applies to:
                     - No new lots                              - No new lots
                     - Adjust lot lines on a Plat               - Adjust lot lines on a Plat

Preliminary          Director                                                  N/A
Land Use Authority   (OR Planning Commission                       Preliminary & Final Combined
                     if Public Hearing is Required)
Final                Director                                   Director
Land Use Authority                                              (OR Planning Commission
                                                                if Public Hearing is Required)
Public Hearing       Public Hearing with Planning               Public Hearing with Planning
                     Commission Decision applies when:          Commission Decision applies when:
                     - Owner within the plat objects in         - Owner within the plat objects in
                       wri ng                                     wri ng
                     - All the owners have not consented        - All the owners have not consented
                     - City proposes to vacate or amend a       - City proposes to vacate or amend a
                       subdivision plat                           subdivision plat
Public Mee ng        Public Mee ng applies when                 Public Mee ng applies when
                     Director makes decision.                   Director makes decision.
Neighborhood         N/A                                        N/A
Mee ng
No ce                - Mailed No ce 500’                        - Mailed No ce 500’
                              +                                       OR
                     - Post Property w/No ce                    - Post Property w/No ce
                           OR                                         OR
                     Public Hearing No ce Procedure             Public Hearing No ce Procedure
Plat Map             - Amended is plat not required             - Amended plat required, but only
                                                                  adjusted lots, not en re plat
                                                                - Reduced Signature Blocks to
                                                                  minimum per State law
Standards/Criteria   Criteria under Sec. 21-30-6(e)             Criteria under Sec. 21-30-7(e)
                                                                1. Complies with all applicable
                                                                    provisions of City Code, and Sandy
                                                                    Standard Speciﬁca ons;
                                                                2. All applicable fees have been paid;
                     1. There is good cause for the vacation,   3. There is good cause for the vaca on,
                       alteration, or amendment; and                altera on, or amendment;
                     2. No public street, right-of-way or       4. No public street, right-of-way or
                       easement has been vacated or                 easement has been vacated or
                       amended.                                     amended;
                                                                5. No new lot results from the
                                                                    amendment; and
                                                                6. The amendment does not result in
                                                                    an increase of a nonconforming
                                                                    situa on.


                                            Page 2 of 3
                                                Exhibit “C”


                                                SUBDIVISIONS
                           Exis ng Code                                 Proposed Code
                            Subdivisions                                 Subdivisions
                                                             Minor                         Major
Applicability                                    All subdivisions, except:     All subdivisions that involve:
                                                 - Requires Planning           - More than 10 lots
                                                   Commission decision         - Dedica on and
                                                 - Director chooses to           Improvement of streets
                                                   elevate decision to PC        (does not apply to only
                           Applies to all                                        street frontage
                            Subdivisions                                         dedica on/improvements)
                        (including single-lot                                  - Overlay zone
                            subdivisions)                                      - Special Excep on
                                                                               - Waiver
                                                                               - Wri en public comment of
                                                                                 objec on or nega ve
                                                                                 impact
                                                                               - Referral by Director to PC
Preliminary          Planning Commission         Director                      Planning Commission
Land Use
Authority
Final                Director/Mayor              Director/Mayor                Director/Mayor
Land Use
Authority
Public Hearing       N/A                         N/A                           N/A
Public Mee ng        Public Mee ng               Public Mee ng                 Public Mee ng
Neighborhood         Neighborhood Mee ng         Neighborhood Mee ng           Neighborhood Mee ng
Mee ng
No ce                - Mailed No ce 500’         - Mailed No ce 500’           - Mailed No ce 500’
                              +                        OR                               +
                     - Post Property w/No ce     - Post Property w/No ce       - Post Property w/No ce
Plat Map             Standard Subdivision        Standard Subdivision Plat     Standard Subdivision Plat
                     Plat
Standards/Criteria   Meets all applica on        Meets all applica on          Meets all applica on
                     requirements, City Code     requirements, City Code and   requirements, City Code and
                     and City Standards          City Standards Speciﬁca ons   City Standards Speciﬁca ons
                     Speciﬁca ons




                                                  Page 3 of 3
