                                                   S ANDY CITY C O M M UN IT Y D E V EL O P ME N T
                                                                                                                                           JAMES SORENSEN COMMUNITY
                                                                                                                                               DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR

                                                                                                                                                        MONICA ZOLTANSKI
                                                                                                                                                            MAYOR

                                                                                                                                                      SHANE E. PACE
                                                                                                                                              CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER


                                          Staff Report Memorandum
                                                                      May 11, 2023

 To:                       Board of Adjustment
 From:                     Community Development Department
 Subject:                  South Towne Center Mall Subdivision Plat Amendment
                           Appeal to Review Alleged Error                                                                                   BOA03092023-006495
                           10450 S State St.                                                                                                         CBD Zone
                           [Commercial Area, Community #9]                                                                                     Approx. 84 Acres


Meeting Notice:                         This item has been noticed to property owners within 500 feet of the subject area,
                                        on public websites, and at public locations.


Request
 The request is for review of an alleged error of an administrative
 decision related to an application to amend the South Towne
 Center Mall Subdivision plat. The applicant is Bruce Baird
 (representing the property owner South Town Owner PR LLC).
 The site is a group of properties around South Towne Mall located
 at 10450 S State St., as shown on the adjacent vicinity map. The
 applicant’s submittals for the appeal are included as Exhibits “C”
 through “E.”

Background
 The property owner previously filed a subdivision review
 application on October 12, 2021 (case file #SUB10122021-
 006180) to amend the South Towne Center Mall Subdivision plat.
 The proposal would subdivide and create separate pad sites on the
 South Towne Center shopping mall property.

 After the initial application review cycle by city staff, the applicant
 was informed of changes and requirements necessary to make the
 preliminary plat application complete, which included addressing
 Sandy City’s Transportation Master Plan for Monroe Street. The
 applicant’s subsequent and revised preliminary plat submittal did
 not address the Monroe Street right-of-way (see Exhibit “E”). As
 such, staff determined, and the applicant was informed, that the application to amend the South Towne Center Mall
 Subdivision plat is not complete. The applicant is appealing this staff decision.



    1 0 0 0 0 C e n t e n n i a l Pa r k w a y   | S a n d y, U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   |   p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   |   f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   |    sandy.utah. gov
Appeal to Review Alleged Error – BOA03092023-006495                                                                                                                           Page 2


                                                                 Relevant Case History
       Case Number                                                                               Case Summary
                                               Proposed amendment to the South Towne Center Mall Subdivision. This case is the
 SUB10122021-006180
                                               subject of the appeal.

Public Notice
 A public notice was mailed out to all property owners within 500 feet of the subject property for the Board of Adjustment
 meeting.

Analysis
 The appellant asserts that the Sandy City staff erred in their application of the Sandy City Land Development Code (LDC)
 by determining that the application to amend the South Towne Center Mall Subdivision plat was incomplete. See Exhibit
 “D” for the applicant’s letter of appeal.

 The LDC provides criteria for staff to evaluate a preliminary subdivision plat application. The following contain applicable
 excerpts of the LDC:
   Chapter 21-30 Subdivision Review
   Sec. 21-30-3. Application and Review Process
   (d) Preliminary Subdivision Review
         …
         (2) Upon submittal of an application and supporting information and attendance at a Development Review Meeting, if
             necessary, the preliminary subdivision plat shall be forwarded to the reviewing departments and agencies who shall
             review it preliminarily to determine if the plat, together with all supporting information, is complete and complies with
             all the requirements of this title and other applicable City and agencies' standards.
                a. If the departments' and agencies' reviews determine that all required, necessary, and requested information has not
                   been submitted or that some of the specifics of the plan or information do not comply with the requirements of this
                   title, the applicant shall be notified in writing and/or on the plat of any deficiencies, comments, corrections, and
                   requirements (including additional information and/or studies) to be addressed. The revised plat and all required,
                   necessary and requested supporting information must be resubmitted after the appropriate additions and/or
                   corrections are made in order to complete the application.
                b. Upon resubmittal, the preliminary subdivision plat will again be forwarded to the reviewing departments and
                   agencies. The applicant shall be required to resubmit the plan and supporting documents to the City until all
                   departments and agencies determine it is complete and complies with the requirements of this title and other
                   applicable City and agencies' standards. Failure to submit complete information will result in written notification
                   to the applicant that the review cannot proceed further until all required, necessary, and requested information is
                   submitted.
   (e) Planning Commission Review
         (1) When the preliminary subdivision plat has been determined to be complete and in compliance with all requirements,
             the plat, together with all supporting information, will be forwarded to the Planning Commission for review at a public
             meeting.
   Sec. 21-30-12. Street Dedication
   Unless previously dedicated, declared a private street, or located within a planned unit development, the developer shall dedicate
   to the City the full width of all street rights-of-way on the final plat; provided, however, that in cases where a proposed street in
   the subdivision parallels undeveloped property where no street currently exists and evidence is provided showing that the owner
   of the abutting property has no intention of developing it within the near future, and as may be recommended by the City
  1 0 0 0 0 C e n t e n n i a l Pa r k w a y    | S a n d y, U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   |   p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   |   f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   |   s a n d y . u t a h . g ov
Appeal to Review Alleged Error – BOA03092023-006495                                                                                                                           Page 3

    Engineer and approved by the Planning Commission and Mayor, the Mayor may waive the full width dedication requirement
    and allow the dedication of a lesser width if he finds that it promotes the public interest.
    Chapter 21-21 Subdivision Design Standards
    Sec. 21-21-10. Street Standards for All Types
    (b) The arrangement, character, extent, width, grade, and location of all streets shall conform to the Transportation Master
         Plan and shall be considered in their relation to existing and planned streets, topographical conditions, public convenience
         and safety, and in their appropriate relation to the proposed uses of the land to be served by such streets.

Based on the requirements of Sandy City Code cited above,
Sandy City staff has processed the subject preliminary plat
application in accordance with the LDC, as described in the
following:
1. After the initial application material for an amendment
   to the South Towne Center Mall Subdivision plat was
   submitted, and as required by Sec. 21-30-3(d)(2)(a), the
   applicant was “notified in writing and on the plat of any
   deficiencies, comments, corrections, and requirements that
   needed to be addressed.” Staff comments to the applicant
   included the need to address the Monroe Street right-of-
   way consistent with the Sandy City Transportation
   Master Plan, and as required by Sandy City Code Sec.
   21-21-10(b) and Sec. 21-30-12. See Exhibit “A” and the
   adjacent map for references to the Sandy City
   Transportation Master Plan. See also Exhibit “F” (p. 4)
   for staff comments regarding Monroe Street.
2. Based on these comments by city staff, Sandy City Code
   Sec. 21-30-3(d)(2)(a) requires the applicant to submit a
   “revised plat and all required, necessary and requested
   supporting information to be resubmitted after the
   appropriate additions and/or corrections are made in order
   to complete the application.” The Sandy City Attorney’s
   Office suggested to the applicant two possible options
   for the resubmittal:
          a. Show the location, width, and legal description
                                                                                                            Sandy Downtown Transportation Master Plan
             of the future public road on the plat; or                                                        2050 Roadway Functional Classification
          b. Include a note on the plat referencing the Sandy
             City Transportation Master Plan and the future Monroe Street that would be required prior to any further
             development/redevelopment or subdivision of the property.
    However, the applicant provided a revised preliminary plat submittal that did not address either of these options. As shown
    on Exhibit “E,” the Monroe Street right-of-way is not addressed in the applicant’s resubmittal, and the response by the
    applicant to this issue is: “Attorneys are coordinating” (Exhibit “F” p. 3). Staff were informed by the City Attorney’s Office
    that while they had met, the applicant had not provided a satisfactory resolution to date.
3. Consistent with the requirements of Sec. 21-30-3(d)(2)(b), the applicant was informed that the application was
   incomplete, and the review could not proceed further until the Monroe Street issue had been addressed. See Exhibit “B”
   for communications between Sandy City staff and the applicant.i

   1 0 0 0 0 C e n t e n n i a l Pa r k w a y   | S a n d y, U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   |   p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   |   f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   |   s a n d y . u t a h . g ov
Appeal to Review Alleged Error – BOA03092023-006495                                                                                                                           Page 4



Legal Standards for an Appeal
The LDC, Section 21-35-1 sets the standards for reviewing an appeal. The following excerpt of this section establishes the
proper standards and procedures for reviewing an appeal:
    Sec. 21-35-1. Appeals
    (e) Information to be Presented.
          (1) An appellant must first present any and all information to the land use authority which it intends to raise
              before the appeal authority. The appellant may not bring new information for consideration before the appeal
              authority that had not been previously presented to the land use authority during its consideration of the
              matter.
          (2) An appellant must present to the designated appeal authority every theory of relief that it can raise in District
              Court.
          (3) No new information that was not previously presented to the land use authority may be presented on appeal.
    (f) Review of the Record of the Land Use Authority.
          (1) The appeal authority's review of decisions of a land use authority shall be confined to the administrative
              record developed by the land use authority unless the appeal authority determines that the record is
              incomplete or deficient.
          (2) If the appeal authority determines that the record is incomplete or deficient, it may review the matter de
              novo.
    (g) Burden of Proof. The appellant has the burden of proving that the land use authority erred.
    (h) Standard of Review.
          (1) Legal Issues; Correctness Standard. The appeal authority shall determine the correctness of a decision of
              the land use authority or administrative official in its interpretation and application of a land use ordinance.
              Because no specialized knowledge is necessary to make such a determination, no deference is given to the
              land use authority or administrative official; provided, however, the appeal authority shall not overrule that
              decision as a matter of law without the advice of its legal counsel.
          (2) Factual Issues and Other Issues; Arbitrary and Capricious Standard. Land use authorities and
              administrative officials have specialized knowledge in the field of planning and land use and are charged with
              and are experienced in implementing the goals and policies of the community as adopted by and under the
              supervision of elected representatives of the public. Accordingly, they should be allowed a comparatively wide
              latitude of discretion; and their actions endowed with a presumption of correctness and validity which an
              appeal authority should not interfere with unless it is shown that there is no reasonable basis to justify the
              action taken, and that, therefore, the determinations made were so unreasonable as to be arbitrary and
              capricious. It is not the appeal authority's prerogative to substitute its judgment for that of the land use
              authority where the record discloses a reasonable basis for the land use authority' determination.
    (i) Scope of Authority. Only those decisions in which a land use authority has applied a land use ordinance to a
        particular application, person, or parcel may be appealed to an appeal authority.

The Board’s review of the staff’s decision is to determine whether a reasonable mind could reach the same conclusion as the
staff did, in light of the evidence staff had before it. The Appellant must marshal all the evidence in support of the staff decision
and show that in spite of the facts which support the decision, and in light of conflicting or contradictory evidence, the decision
is not supported by substantial evidence. Substantial evidence is evidence which is adequate to convince a reasonable mind to
support a conclusion. See Carlsen v. Board of Adjustment of City of Smithfield 2012 UT App 260 ¶¶ 4, 5, 7.



   1 0 0 0 0 C e n t e n n i a l Pa r k w a y   | S a n d y, U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   |   p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   |   f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   |   s a n d y . u t a h . g ov
Appeal to Review Alleged Error – BOA03092023-006495                                                                                                                           Page 5


Recommendation
  Staff recommends that the Board of Adjustment carefully consider and should follow the statutory requirements for an
  appeal set out above before rendering a decision. As stated in the ordinance cited, the appellant bears the burden of proving
  that the land use authority erred. It is not enough to show that one could reasonably reach a different conclusion on the
  facts if there is a reasonable basis for the decision reached by staff.
  Based upon the staff analysis of the appellants’ letter requesting the appeal and the standard of review required, staff
  recommends that the Board of Adjustment determine that the staff did not err in making its decision that the application
  for an amendment to the South Towne Center Mall Subdivision plat is incomplete and that review of the preliminary plat
  cannot proceed further until the Monroe Street issue had been addressed. This conclusion is based upon the following
  findings:
  Findings:
  1. The record of this decision is sufficient and not deficient as demonstrated in the referenced staff report and associated
     exhibits; therefore, this matter can be reviewed on the record, and not de novo.
  2. The appellants have not shown that there is no reasonable basis to justify the action taken, and the determinations made
     were so unreasonable as to be arbitrary and capricious.
  3. Based on the findings and evidence cited in this staff report, the preliminary plat application for an amendment to the
     South Towne Center Mall Subdivision plat was processed as required by the Sandy Land Development Code.
  4. Therefore, the staff’s decision was correct in its interpretation and application of a land use ordinance.


Planner:



Melissa Anderson
Zoning Administrator

Exhibits
  A. Sandy City Transportation Master Plan (p. 82)
  B. Email communications between Sandy City and the applicant (3/2/2023 through 3/3/2023)
  C. Application for appeal
  D. Applicant’s letter of appeal
  E. Proposed amended plat for the South Towne Center Mall Subdivision
  F. Staff comments and applicant responses to the proposed amended plat


File Name: S:\USERS\PLN\STAFFRPT\2023\BOA03092023-006495_SOUTHTOWN MALL AMENDED PLAT - ALLEGED ERROR\STAFF REPORT\BOA03092023-006495 BOFA
STAFF RPT.FINAL.DOCX



    i
           The applicant also asserts that the road dedication is unconstitutional and that it is illegal to suspend the preliminary
           plat review process based on an unconstitutional ordinance. The role of the Board of Adjustment is to determine the
           correctness of a staff decision in its interpretation and application of a land use ordinance. Consequently, determining
           if the Sandy City Code is constitutional is beyond the purview of the Board of Adjustment. Furthermore, Sandy City
           staff has never suggested that the applicant provide the road for free or pay more than a proportionate share of the
           dedication or construction of the road. These issues are beyond the scope of the Board of Adjustment review and need
           not be further addressed.

   1 0 0 0 0 C e n t e n n i a l Pa r k w a y   | S a n d y, U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   |   p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   |   f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   |   s a n d y . u t a h . g ov
