                                                                                                 10000 South Centennial

                                          Sandy City                                             Parkway Suite 231
                                                                                                 Sandy, UT 84070

                                         Council Office                                          O| 801-568-7141
                                                                                                 Sandy.Utah.Gov




                                                 MEMORANDUM

                                                November 19, 2024

To:                  City Council Members

CC:                  Monica Zoltanski, Mayor
                     Dustin Fratto, Council Executive Director

From:                Ryan Mecham, Council Member District 1

Subject:             First Reading: Entering into a new Sister City Agreement with Bucha, Ukraine



Sandy City presently has two formal Sister City Partnerships, both beginning in 2002. Our partnerships
with Riesa, Germany and Piedras Negras, Mexico allow Sandy to participate in cultural and student
exchanges, and promote economic cooperation, tourism, and humanitarian efforts. In this proposal, I’m
asking the Council and Mayor to consider establishing an additional, similar, sister city relationship with
Bucha, Ukraine.

Bucha is a city in Ukraine’s Kyjev Oblast (Province). Bucha and Sandy share comparable, foundational,
characteristics, such as size and relative proximity to large metro areas. Just as Sandy is close to our
capital of Salt Lake City, Bucha is a suburban community 25 km West of the Capital of Kyjev. Sandy’s
relationship with Bucha and the Kyjev Oblast first began In 2022, when, with the help of the David Jack
Family, Sandy City welcomed and hosted a team of Ukrainian firefighters from Kyjev. While visiting
Sandy, the Ukrainian team participated in the World Firefighter Combat Challenge. Tragically, these
firefighters’ homes were bombed by Russian forces during their time in Sandy. 1 Four firefighters live in
the greater Kyiv area, including Aleksandr Baran, Volodymyr Dudka, and Oksana Chehmestrenko.

The Russian Invasion of Ukraine, which has resulted in over 30,000 confirmed civilian casualties and has
displaced millions of Ukrainians 2, includes the 2022 Battle of Bucha. During the invasion, Bucha was
captured by Russian forces. However, weeks later, on March 31, 2022, the City was liberated by
Ukrainian forces. Soon after Bucha’s liberation, rebuilding efforts began. To assist with the millions who
have been displaced, Utahn Dell Loy Hansen has built three housing developments for Ukrainian


1
    Taggart, S. M. (2023). Sandy resident given Global Citizen Award. The City Journals: Sandy's Own Community
                      Newspaper. Retrieved from https://www.sandyjournal.com/2023/05/08/434634/sandy-
                      resident-given-global-citizen-award

2
    United Nations Human Rights Office of the High Commissioner. (2024). Two-Year Update - Protection of civilians:
                    Impact of hostilities on civilians since 24 Februrary 2022. United Nations, Human Rights. United
                    Nations. Retrieved from https://www.ohchr.org/en/documents/country-reports/two-year-
                    update-protection-civilians-impact-hostilities-civilians-24
refugees: “Cudo Village” in Kolonshchyna, “Hansen Apartments” in Sofiivska Borschahivka, and “Hansen
Village” in Tarasivka. Each of these developments is within 90 minutes of Bucha.

Bucha is also part of the U.S. Agency for International Development’s (USAID) HOVERLA program, which
aims to strengthen local governments in Ukraine. It was created before the war and now includes efforts
towards reconstruction and future planning. The sister city initiative provides significant benefits in
terms of knowledge transfer and exchange of ideas, including strategic development and economic
growth. It could also include best practices in municipal outreach and citizen engagement, budget
discussions, and emergency management.

As in 2022, we again have the opportunity to join hands with the Ukrainian people in Bucha, this time in
a formal capacity. I propose that the Council discuss, review, and adopt the attached agreement to
develop economic, cultural and tourism cooperation, and to strengthen friendly relations with the City
of Bucha in the Kyjev Oblast of Ukraine.
