                                                                                  10000 South Centennial

                                   Sandy City                                     Parkway Suite 231
                                                                                  Sandy, UT 84070

                                  Council Office                                  O| 801-568-7141
                                                                                  Sandy.Utah.Gov



                                        Memorandum

                                           June 4, 2024

To:      City Council

CC:      Dustin Fratto – City Council Executive Director
         Brian Kelley – Administrative Services Director

From:    Alison Stroud – Council District 2

Subject: Council Member Stroud proposed amendment to the FY 2025 Tentative Budget
         Administrative Law Judge


Description: Appropriation of funding for an Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) to handle code
enforcement violations.
Proposal Summary:
This amendment proposes the appropriation of $25,000 to fund an Administrative Law Judge
(ALJ) position. The ALJ will be responsible for handling code enforcement violations,
streamlining the enforcement process and ensuring timely resolution of cases. During the
research process for this proposal, I was able to attend, view and learn about the process used
by Taylorsville. In addition, Council Staff gathered information from West Valley City, West
Jordan, and South Salt Lake on their use of an ALJ. It is anticipated that some if not all of the
cost of this proposal could be offset by increases in Code Enforcement fines. It is possible that
once an ALJ is hired and the process is fully ramped up that costs could exceed $25,000 for a
full year. It’s also possible that this program become self-sufficient once it has been established
and is operating at capacity.
Detailed Proposed Expenditures:
Department 1900 – 412470 - NEW – Administrative Law Enforcement Program $25,000
Department 1300 – 412470 – 91010 – Youth City Council $5,500
Proposed Revenue Source:
The funding for the Administrative Law Judge Program will be sourced from a reduction of
existing projects within the Non-Departmental Special Programs line item. Which projects
ultimately receive reductions will be left up to administrative staff to determine and
recommend prior to adoption of the final budget.
                                                                                 10000 South Centennial

                                  Sandy City                                     Parkway Suite 231
                                                                                 Sandy, UT 84070

                                 Council Office                                  O| 801-568-7141
                                                                                 Sandy.Utah.Gov

This proposal also requires that the Youth City Council Line item, found in Non-Departmental,
be relocated to the City Council Office Budget. To accomplish that, the following reduction shall
be included:
Department 1900 – 412470 Special Programs $672,678 (Reduced from $678,178)


Justification:
Sandy City Code Enforcement has had prior difficulty in pursuing enforcement efforts when
citations are issued. Currently prosecuting these citations following a criminal process has not
achieved desired results. An alternative that has been research and vetted is to transition to an
administrative method of enforcement which would be more effective. Section 1-4-8 of the
Sandy City Code the process for appointing an Administrative Hearing Officer has been clearly
outlined and stipulates specific qualifications for the appointee. Section 1-4-8(a)-(b) states:

       The Mayor, with the consent of the City Council, shall appoint an administrative hearing
       officer to preside at administrative hearings and issue administrative orders. A person
       appointed to serve as an administrative hearing officer shall either be law trained or
       have significant experience with the requirements and operation of administrative
       hearing processes. The person shall be free from any bias or conflict of interest that
       might affect impartiality of decisions.

The community impact of pursuing an administrative method of code enforcement would give
Sandy City an additional method to increase compliance with our code, increase the speed in
which violations are resolved and with time raising the appearance and safety of the
community.

Conclusion:
In reallocating $25,000 from existing projects within Non-Departmental to establish an
Administrative Law Judge function, the city will improve its code enforcement process,
benefiting both the community and city professional staff. This strategic investment, supported
by data from neighboring cities, aligns with our commitment to continuing a well-maintained
and compliant city environment.
