S ANDY CITY COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
JAMES SORENSEN COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR
 
  MONICA ZOLTANSKI   
			MAYOR

       SHANE E. PACE
        CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER


Staff Report Memorandum
November 7, 2024



To:
City Council via Planning Commission

From:
Community Development Department

Subject:
Herzberg Annexation (R-1-20 Zone)
ANX09252024-006856

10479 S. Dimple Dell Road


[Community #29]
0.49 Acres 


Public Hearing Notice:	This item has been noticed on public websites, at public locations, along with multiple signs posted on site.



Request 
Roberta Herzberg is requesting to annex a certain contiguous unincorporated area, totaling approximately 0.49 acres, located at 10479 S. Dimple Dell Road, in Salt Lake County, Utah. The subject property under consideration for annexation contains 1 parcel. This parcel does currently have an existing single-family dwelling.  The property owner has indicated to staff that they do not want to be part of the Granite incorporation, if that were to happen. There is an adjacent county property to the south on the east side of Dimple Dell Road, but that owner does not want to be included in this annexation.

Background
Staff does have the property owner consent. 

Sandy City borders the subject area to the north and east.  

Public Notice and Outreach
The City Council approved Resolution 24-42C on October 8, 2024 which set a public hearing for November 12, 2024, and directed the City Recorder to publish and send notice of the hearing in accordance with Utah Code.

Analysis
The annexation is being considered by the City for the following reasons:
	•	The City is considering annexing the area pursuant to 10-2-418 Utah Code Annotated.
	•	The area is contiguous to the Sandy City boundary (north and east side).
	•	The property is located within an area designated in the Sandy City General Plan for incorporation.
	•	The City can provide a high level of municipal services to the property.

General Plan
Portions of the Sandy City General Plan which relate to this application are as follows:

p.43   	Recognize that economics alone is not sufficient reason to alter established neighborhoods.  
Human and environmental impacts also should be recognized.

p.44	Require proposed zoning changes to be in harmony with established neighborhoods.

Zoning
The existing Salt Lake County zoning district for this unincorporated property is R-1-43.  The R-1-43 zone requires a minimum of 43,000 square feet lot size for a single-family dwelling.

In general, when Sandy City annexes a property into the City from Salt Lake County, we have always been sensitive to what the property was zoned in the County.  In most cases we have been able to zone property to a comparable zone as we annex them into the City.  As we have done this, we have considered the existing properties that are adjacent to the area being annexed and try to assure that the annexed area is compatible with the existing area.  

This parcel is .49 acres, which is approximately 21, 344 square feet.  Rather than annexing this area and making the parcel legal nonconforming, staff is proposing to annex the subject property into the City with the R-1-20 zone. This zoning would not allow any further development without considering a rezone of the area. The area around this parcel to the north and east are zoned R-1-40, but all of those lots are 40,000 square feet or larger.

Recommendation
It is recommended that the Planning Commission send a positive recommendation to the City Council that the Herzberg Annexation be approved and zoned R-1-20 based upon the following findings:

	•	The area is contiguous to the Sandy City boundary (north and east side).
	•	The property is located within an area designated in the Sandy City General Plan for incorporation.
	•	The City can provide a high level of municipal services to these properties.
	•	The R-1-20 is appropriate for this property based upon current lot size.





Planner:						



Brian McCuistion				
Asst. Community Development Director	



Property Owner
Sidwell Number
Market Value (2024)
Acres
Herzberg, William and Roberta
28-14-178-003
$856,600
0.49




File Name: S:\USERS\PLN\STAFFRPT\2024\Herzberg Annexation.DOCX

