                                                                                     10000 South Centennial

                                      Sandy City                                     Parkway Suite 231
                                                                                     Sandy, UT 84070

                                     Council Office                                  O| 801-568-7141
                                                                                     Sandy.Utah.Gov




                                            MEMORANDUM

                                            February 13, 2024

To:               City Council Members

CC:               Dustin Fratto, Council Executive Director

From:             Aaron Dekeyzer, Council Member At-large

Subject:          Proposed amendments to the Council Rules of Procedure




Council Member Dekeyzer Proposed amendments to the Council Rules of Procedure:

      A. Place standing reports near the top of the agenda (see attached redline)
      B. Update the process for speakers to comment and remove the requirement to fill out a "blue
         card" (see attached redline)
      C. Combine Work and Business Sessions (As proposed by staff, see staff redline).
                                      Sandy City Council
                                 Legislative Policies and Procedures


SUBJECT: Rules of Procedure

BACKGROUND:
State law § 10-3-606 requires the City Council to adopt rules of order and procedure governing
and prescribing:

   a) parliamentary order and procedure;
   b) ethical behavior; and
   c) civil discourse.

The City Council is further required to:

   a) conduct public meetings in accordance with the adopted rules of order and procedure;
   b) make the rules of order and procedure available to the public; at each meeting of the
      municipal legislative body; and on the City website.

POLICY:

   1. The “Sandy City Guidelines, Conduct of Official Council Meetings” adopted via Resolution
      #07-66C are hereby repealed.
   2. Sandy City Council Rules of Procedure amended and re-adopted on February 21, 2023

   3. The Sandy City Council Rules of Order and Procedure are described as follows:
                                      Sandy City Council
                                  Rules of Order and Procedure


Parliamentary Order and Procedure, Ethical Behavior, and Civil Discourse

   1. Standard Order of Business

           a) The standard order of business for regularly scheduled meetings of the City Council
              is as follows. The City Council may vote to amend the standard order of business
              from time to time based on the actual content of each meeting. The Council will not
              entertain new items after 11 PM unless agreed to by a majority of the Members.

           b) Dependent on the annual meeting schedule, the City Council generally meets each
              Tuesday at 5:15 PM. City Council meetings will alternate between Work Sessions and
              Business Sessions with two Work Session meetings per month and two Business
              Sessions per month. Council voting on substantive issues occurs in Business Sessions.
              Procedural votes such as closing a meeting, providing informal direction to staff
              based on information received from a presentation, or making necessary adjustments
              to the meeting schedule or agenda, may occur in the Work Session at the discretion
              of the Chair. The Council shall not adopt resolutions nor ordinances during a Work
              Session, except resolutions of Special Recognitions. Work Sessions shall be conducted
              on the 2nd and 4th Tuesday of each month contingent on the annual meeting
              schedule.

             5:15 PM Work Session (2nd and 4th Tuesday of each month)

             Opening Remarks/Prayer/Pledge of Allegiance
                 A. Standing Reports:
                     1.      Agenda Planning Calendar Review & Council Director Report
                     2.      Council Member Business
                     3.      Mayor’s Report
                     4.      Chief Administrative Officer Report
                     5.      Other Standing Reports as needed
                 B. Work Session Items (the order of items within this category may be altered
                      from time to time to accommodate presenters and other special
                      circumstances).
                     1.      Special Recognition
                     2.      Informational briefings, training opportunities, discussion items, first
                             readings, etc.
                 C. After 6:00 PM General Citizen Comment Period (see paragraph D E below)

                  D. Standing Reports:
                     6.     Agenda Planning Calendar Review & Council Director Report
                     7.     Council Member Business
                     8.     Mayor’s Report
                     9.     Chief Administrative Officer Report
                     10.    Other Standing Reports as needed


              5:15 Business Session (1st and 3rd Tuesday of each month)
                       Sandy City Council
                  Rules of Order and Procedure


Opening Remarks/Prayer/Pledge of Allegiance
   D. Standing Reports (not timed certain)
       1.     Agenda Planning Calendar Review & Council Director Report
       2.     Council Member Business
       3.     Mayor’s Report
       4.     Chief Administrative Officer Report
       5.     Other Standing Reports as needed
   E. Citizen Comment
      1.      Introduction. The City Council welcomes written and oral citizen
              comment on any City subjects at regular meetings. Oral comment will
              be taken:
                 a. During the General Citizen Comment Period. Oral public
                     comment will be taken on city subjects, including council
                     informational and voting items listed on the meeting agenda.
                 b. During Public Hearings. Oral public comment on a public hearing
                     item shall be held until the public hearing is opened.
                 c. During council voting items. Oral comment on every council
                     voting item shall be accepted during the general citizen
                     comment period and during a separate comment period for
                     each council voting item.
      2.      Start times:
                 a. The General Citizen Comment period will begin no earlier than
                     6:00 PM. The Council will aim to open the oral General Citizen
                     Comment Period at 6:00 PM, or at the next available transition
                     between agenda items thereafter.
                 b. The Council will open oral public comment on each public
                     hearing item and each council voting item when those items are
                     called.
      3.      Speakers may comment in-person or remotely. Each speaker is
              allowed three minutes to address the Council. The Chair may extend
              the time for Citizen Comment at his or her discretion. Commenters
              Each speaker is required to provide their name for the public record.
              The Council are requested to requests that each speaker state provide
              their city of residence. to the Council for the public record.
                 a. If providing comment in-person, each speaker should raise their
                     hand when the City Council Chairperson opens the comment
                     period for the agenda item that they are interested in speaking
                     on. The Chairperson will then recognize and call each speaker to
                     the podium in turn.
      4.      The Council welcomes written eComment on City subjects, public
              hearings, and on any council voting item. The link to eComment can
              be found on each City Council agenda. EComment closes one hour
              prior to the start of each meeting. Citizens can also submit a written
              comment on City subjects to the Council by emailing
              CitizenComment@sandy.utah.gov.

   F. Business Session Items (the order of items within this category may be altered
      from time to time to accommodate presenters and other special
                                 Sandy City Council
                            Rules of Order and Procedure
                 circumstances)
                 1.     Special Recognition
                 2.     Public Hearings (The Council will accept written and oral citizen
                        comment on each public hearing item according to the procedure
                        described in paragraph D above)
                 3.     Consent Calendar
                 4.     Council Voting Items (The Council will accept written and oral citizen
                        comment on each council voting item according to the procedure
                        described in paragraph D above)

             G. Standing Reports (not timed certain)
                 6.    Agenda Planning Calendar Review & Council Director Report
                 7.    Council Member Business
                 8.    Mayor’s Report
                 9.    Chief Administrative Officer Report
                 10.   Other Standing Reports as needed


      c) Council Member Business, the Mayor’s report, and the Chief Administrative Officer’s
         report are informational in nature. These reports may include such items as updates
         from committee meetings, summaries of significant City events, recognition
         proposals, and recommendations for future discussion items. No action except
         discussion can occur on such an item at the meeting in which it is introduced; it
         must be added to a future agenda as a voting item before formal Council action can
         occur.

      d) The Council may deviate from the standard order of business as necessary.

      e) Items not completed during the Council Meeting portion of the agenda should be
         rescheduled at the next available Council Meeting as appropriate.

2. Motions

      Main Motion

      a) A motion is a formal proposal by a Member of the City Council, in a meeting, that
         the Council take certain action.


      b) After a motion has been seconded, another Member of the Council may offer a
         friendly amendment to the original motion maker which he or she, together with
         the seconder of the motion, may accept or reject. Friendly amendments are
         informal and are not counted toward motions to amend.

      Motion to Amend

      c) A motion to amend which has been seconded and receives a majority vote of the
                                  Sandy City Council
                              Rules of Order and Procedure
            Members present amends the main motion.

              i.   A Motion to Amend must be germane. Any amendment proposed must in
                   some way involve the same question raised by the motion it amends. As
                   such, motions to amend should insert and/or strikeout wording of the
                   original motion. Motions to amend may not be the negation of the main
                   motion.

             ii.   The Chair will rule whether or not a Motion to Amend is germane to the
                   main motion.

      d) To retain clarity of debate, the main motion should only be amended no more than
         two times.

      e) A motion which has been seconded (amended or otherwise) and is the subject of
         debate must be dispensed with before a new motion can be considered. There are
         no “substitute motions” which unilaterally shift debate away from the main motion.

      Motion to Reconsider

      f) After a main motion has been dispensed with, a Motion to Reconsider may be
         offered at the same meeting in which the motion suggested to be reconsidered
         occurred. However, the Motion to Reconsider may only be offered by a Member
         who voted on the winning side, whether in the affirmative or negative. A second to
         the Motion to Reconsider may be offered by any Member. In the event of a tie vote,
         any member may offer a Motion to Reconsider. The Motion to Reconsider brings up
         the item at the same meeting in which the vote to be reconsidered occurred.

      Renewal of Motions

      g) If properly placed on the Council Meeting agenda, any Member may Motion to
         Rescind or Amend an action of the Council.

3. Debate

      a) It is recommended that formal titles such as “Mr./Madam Chair” be utilized to
         encourage a professional, courteous and orderly atmosphere.

      b) No motion shall be debated until it has been seconded by another Member of the
         City Council. A motion dies for lack of a second from another Member of the
         Council.

      c) For clarity, after a motion has been seconded, the Chair should restate the motion
         or cause it to be displayed in writing for the Members of the Council and the public.

      d) The Chair should ensure that each Council Member who desires to speak has
         opportunity to do so.
                                  Sandy City Council
                              Rules of Order and Procedure
      e) Members should refrain from speaking until being recognized by the Chair.

      Call the Previous Question or “Calling the Question”

      f) Any Member may make a Motion for the Previous Question during debate
         (commonly called “calling the question”). A Motion for the Previous Question is a
         proposal to end debate on the main motion. It requires a second and must be
         adopted by a majority of Members present. The Motion for the Previous Question is
         not debatable. A vote on the Previous Question does not decide the main motion.
         It decides whether or not debate on the main motion should cease.

      Appeal

      g) Any Member may raise a Point of Order without having first been recognized by the
         Chair in order to seek clarification on a parliamentary question. The Chair will rule
         on the Point of Order.

               i. Rulings of the Chair may be appealed to the City Council as a whole. A
                  majority vote of the City Council may override a ruling of the Chair.

      Pause in Council Proceedings
      h) The Chair may allow the Council to stand at ease for a brief pause if necessary
         during debate.

4. Quorum

      a) A quorum of the City Council is required to conduct business. A quorum is four
         Members.

5. Voting

      a) Voting shall be in the form of “yes” or “aye,” “no” or “nay,” and “abstain.” The
         names of those voting for, against, or abstaining shall be entered in the Council
         minutes.

      b) No Council Members shall vote unless physically present or participating through
         electronic means pursuant to Utah Code Annotated § 52-4-207. Proxy votes are not
         allowed.

      Types of Voting

      c) A roll call vote is required for all ordinances and may occur for other votes. “Roll
         call” means that each Council Member participating verbally gives his or her vote
         when called upon to vote. Any Member has the discretion to call for a roll call vote.

      d) If a roll call vote is not required, a voice vote may occur. A voice vote is the request
         of the Chair such as, “All in favor,” and/or “All opposed” where the Council
                                        Sandy City Council
                                   Rules of Order and Procedure
                Members simultaneously state their vote on an item.

           Number of Votes Required to Pass an Item

           e) The minimum number of votes required to pass an ordinance or resolution, or to
              take any action by the Council, unless otherwise prescribed by law, is a majority of
              the entire membership of the Council, without regard to vacancy or absences,
              namely four votes.

                    i. Notwithstanding this provision, a Council meeting may be adjourned to a
                       specific time if the majority vote is less than four votes.

           f)   An expression of “abstain” during voting shall not be considered as an affirmative or
                negative vote. For purposes of a Motion to Reconsider, an “abstain” vote does not
                grant standing. In other words, a Council Member who abstains on a question or is
                absent when the vote on a question is taken may not move to reconsider the
                question.


     g) In the case of a tie vote, the motion shall fail.

     Explanation of Vote or Conflict

     h) A Council Member desiring to explain his or her vote should do so prior to the call of the
        roll or voice vote.

     i)    Any Council Member who has an immediate or direct financial interest in any item
           pending before the Council shall disclose this fact to the Council at the time the item is
           called. Members declaring such an interest should leave the room during the discussion
           and abstain from voting on that item.

      j)   Custom should not conflict with adopted Rules of Order and Procedure. To the
           extent that custom conflicts with adopted Rules, the Rules shall supersede until
           amended to reflect customary practice.

6.   Amending the Rules

           a) If previous notice is given, namely a specific amendment or set of amendments to the
              Rules of Order and Procedure is placed on the regular Council Meeting agenda in
              advance, a majority vote of Members of the City Council is required to modify the Rules
              of Order and Procedure.

                      i.   If the Rules of Order and Procedure have not been explicitly placed on the
                           Council Meeting agenda for discussion, a two-thirds majority of the Council
                           Members present may suspend or modify the Rules in order to accomplish a
                           specific action.

           b) In the event that any provision herein conflicts with state law, state law supersedes.
                                       Sandy City Council
                                    Rules of Order and Procedure
   7. Annual Review and Re-adoption of the Rules of Procedure

           a) The City Council shall review and readopt its Rules of Procedure, including any
              amendments, by majority vote, each calendar year no later than the last regularly
              scheduled Business Session Council Meeting in February.

   8. A Link to each video or audio recording of every City Council meeting shall be published on
      the appropriate city council social media sites.




History:
Original Approval: March 29, 2016
Revision: February 19, 2019
Last Revision: 1-21-20
Last Revision: 9-1-20
Last Revision: 3-9-21
Last Revision: 2-15-22
Last Revision: 2-21-23
Last Revision: 2-27-24
