                                      S A N DY C I T Y C O M M U N I T Y D E V E L O P M E N T
                                                                                                                                       JAMES SORENSEN
                                                                                                                                    COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
                                                                                                                                          DIRECTOR

                                                                                                                                        MONICA ZOLTANSKI
                                                                                                                                            MAYOR

                                                                                                                                        SHANE E. PACE
                                                                                                                                CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER




                                Staff Report Memorandum
                                                            July 18, 2024


 To:             Planning Commission
 From:           Community Development Department
 Subject:        Willow Creek CC Maintenance Area Reconstruction                                                           SPR05172024-006771
                 Project (Preliminary Site Plan and Conditional Use Review)                                                CUP05172024-006775
                 8505 S. Willow Creek Dr.                                                                                Open Space (OS) Zone
                 [Community #18, Willow Creek]                                                                              Approx. 2.75 Acres


Public Meeting Notice:              This item has been noticed to property owners within 500 feet of the subject
                                    area, on public websites, at public locations, and a sign posted on site.


Request
 The applicant, Mr. James Glascock, Architect, representing
 the Willow Creek Country Club, is requesting Site Plan
 Review (SPR) and Conditional Use Permit (CUP) approval
 for the reconstruction and relocation of the existing
 maintenance area facilities for the property located at 8505
 S. Willow Creek Dr. The proposed project area includes
 approximately 2.75 acres and is located on the northern
 boundary of the golf course property and abutting existing
 single-family homes. (These existing homes front onto
 Etienne Way and are located within the Un-incorporated
 Salt Lake County zoning jurisdiction.) The proposal is to
 construct: a new 16,663 square foot, single story,
 maintenance equipment storage, repair shop, and office use
 building; a 4,160 square foot greenhouse; a parking lot and
 other related improvements (such as landscaping). The new
 maintenance area complex is proposed to be located between
 the existing single-family homes to the north and the current
 maintenance buildings to the south. After the new
 construction is completed, the old maintenance facilities will
 be demolished and that area re-landscaped. Please see the
 applicant’s request letter attached as (Exhibit A) and
 application materials (Exhibit B).



     10000 Centennial Parkway        | S a nd y , U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   | p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   | f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   | s a n d y . u t a h . go v
Willow Creek CC Maintenance Area – SPR05172024-006771 & CUP05172024-006775                                                                                     Page 2


                                                     Property Case History
        Case Number                                                                     Case Summary
                                        Sandy City annexed the subject property and designated the zoning
       Ordinance #18-35
                                        classification as Open Space (OS). Adopted Dec. 26, 2018

Background
 The Willow Creek Country Club complex consists of 158 acres containing a golf course, driving range, clubhouse with
 restaurant, golf pro shop, outdoor swimming pool, a maintenance area with buildings and a green house and a large vehicle
 parking lot for members of the club. The complex was developed entirely while the property was located within the zoning
 jurisdiction of Un-incorporated Salt Lake County. Sandy City annexed the country club property in December of 2018,
 and zoned the entire country club property as Open Space (OS). Upon annexation into Sandy City, the country club’s
 existing land uses, facilities and property automatically became either conforming or legal non-conforming to the Sandy
 City zoning ordinance as to land use classifications and physical site improvements. Since the property was annexed the
 County is no longer the land use authority. This is the first land use application sought by the country club seeking to amend
 any of the physical site improvements since being annexed into Sandy City.




 Figure 1 - Existing drive access from Etienne Way                           Figure 2 - Existing home on the west side of drive access.




 Figure 3 - Existing drive access (looking north)                            Figure 4 - Looking northeast and seeing the rear of the existing
                                                                             home on the east side of the drive access



     10000 Centennial Parkway          | S a nd y , U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   | p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   | f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   | s a n d y . u t a h . go v
Willow Creek CC Maintenance Area – SPR05172024-006771 & CUP05172024-006775                                                                                    Page 3




  Figure 5 - Existing dirt mound (where new building would be               Figure 6 – Dirt mound and one of the existing buildings & current
  located) (looking east)                                                   improvements) (looking southeast)

 The surrounding zoning to the south of the country club property is generally located within Sandy City and is zoned for
 larger lot single-family-dwelling use. The existing single-family homes abutting the northern side of the country club
 property are generally within an un-incorporated Salt Lake Couty jurisdictional island between Sandy City and Cottonwood
 Heights City. These abutting homes on the north of the golf course property are zoned A-1, under Salt Lake County’s
 zoning regulations (which allows for the existing single-family-residential homes on at least 10,000 lots.) The country club
 property is the only Open Space zoned property in the area.

 Sandy City Code Chapter 21-10, Open Space District, includes a land use matrix that designates the listed land use
 designations as either permitted (P), conditional (C) or not allowed (N). Country club or golf course land use designations
 are not specifically listed in the matrix of land uses. The closest land use designations to describe these existing activities and
 site improvements are “Parks, Public and Private” and “Recreation, Outdoor”. Both categories are listed in the existing
 matrix as (C) conditional uses within the OS Zone. In the definitions section of the Sandy City Development Code, Chapter
 21-37, Definitions, under the “Parks, Public and Private” land use category, a specific reference is made as examples, to
 “…open space, playground, swimming pool, golf course, or athletic field available for recreational...use”. Under the
 definition of “Recreation, Outdoor” land use category, a specific reference is made as examples, to “… restrooms, dressing
 rooms, equipment storage, maintenance buildings, and open-air pavilions, and used primarily for recreation activities….”

 Also in Chapter 21-10, Open Space District, in the land use matrix is listed “Accessory Structure, (Unless otherwise
 specified)” and is designated as (N), not allowed. The intent of this language is to restrict accessory structures unless they
 are associated with and support a primary use, in which case they would be allowed. While it is customary for parks and golf
 courses to feature accessory structures such as restrooms and maintenance buildings, the current code language can cause
 confusion whether an accessory structure is permitted for a park or golf course. Staff has put forward a code amendment to
 provide clarity and eliminate any doubt that accessory structures are permitted for parks and golf courses with conditional
 use review in the Open Space Zone District. (See related code amendment application CA07032024-0006794, for full
 details.)
 Sandy City Code requires any new site construction, building permit activity or infrastructure improvements must first
 receive Site Plan Review by the Planning Commission. The existing land uses are proposed to be reconstructed and relocated
 on the same property by these applications, are determined to be ancillary to and in support of “Parks, Public or Private”
 and “Recreation, Outdoor”. Those land use categories are both listed as (C) Conditional Uses in the open space zone matrix
 and require a conditional use permit to be reviewed along with the proposed site plan.


     10000 Centennial Parkway         | S a nd y , U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   | p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   | f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   | s a n d y . u t a h . go v
Willow Creek CC Maintenance Area – SPR05172024-006771 & CUP05172024-006775                                                                                  Page 4


 A Conditional Use Permit is required to be approved by the Planning Commission, to assess reasonably anticipated negative
 impacts of the proposed uses and the site improvements and buildings, and to impose mitigating measures and requirements
 to the extent possible, to reduce those anticipated impacts to surrounding properties. A Site Plan Review is required to
 approve the requested buildings and site improvements being made by the relocation and reconstruction of the maintenance
 area facilities of the country club and golf course property.

Public Notice and Outreach
 Applications for the site plan review and the conditional use permit were made on May 17, 2024. Planning staff sent the
 plans and documents to the reviewing city departments and divisions and requested preliminary site plan review by them.
 Staff prepared a neighborhood meeting public notice mailing for a Zoom meeting to be held for this project on June 10,
 2024. On June 7, 2024, staff posted a public meeting notice sign on the property for the Planning Commission meeting to
 be held on June 20, 2024. The abutting residential neighbors residing on Etienne Way in the county saw the posted sign
 noticing the Planning Commission meeting scheduled for the 20th of June and called and emailed city staff about the project
 on Monday, June 10, 2024, and stated that they had not received any mailed notice for the neighborhood meeting to be
 held that night on June 10, but only saw the posted sign.

 This information caused the planning staff to research the mailing list for the June 10, 2024, neighborhood meeting and
 staff found that the wrong portion of the Willow Creek area had been noticed and the more impacted area was not noticed.
 Planning staff went ahead and held the neighborhood meeting that night on June 10, 2024, but informed those in attendance
 that another neighborhood meeting would also be held on June 25, 2024, with a new Planning Commission meeting date
 of July 18, 2024. A revised public notice was mailed on June 12, 2024, to over 400 property owners surrounding the entire
 country club property for the second neighborhood meeting and stating the rescheduled Planning Commission meeting
 date of July 18, 2024.

Neighborhood Meeting
 Due to the noticing error, staff held two neighborhood meetings. Both meetings were well attended and there were several
 questions and concerns voiced by those in attendance and those that emailed staff prior to the meetings. Participants were
 generally from the neighborhood to the north of the golf course property. Please see Exhibit C for the minutes of both
 neighborhood meetings and a portion of presentation with responses to known questions and issues raised prior to the
 second meeting. The issues that were generally expressed during both meetings are summarized as follows:
      Questioning the need for any change from the existing facilities and activities.
      Statements that the proposed building for the maintenance activities was too tall at 35 feet to the ridge and too close
          to their rear property lines at 20 feet.
      Statements that existing views from residents’ backyards would be negatively impacted by the new building.
      Questioning why the new buildings and related activities could not be replaced at their current locations and
          therefore not moved closer to their properties.
      Noise from activities and equipment.
      Vehicle traffic using their residential street to access the maintenance area.
      Odors coming from the maintenance area.
      Materials delivery and storage on site.
      Concerns about where construction workers might park their private vehicles during construction impacting their
          residential street.
      Assertions that the existing uses were not allowed to be changed or expanded.
      Assertions that accessary structures are not allowed in the OS zoning district.




     10000 Centennial Parkway       | S a nd y , U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   | p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   | f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   | s a n d y . u t a h . go v
Willow Creek CC Maintenance Area – SPR05172024-006771 & CUP05172024-006775                                                                                   Page 5


Analysis
 This staff report includes two action items for consideration by the Planning Commission. The Site Plan Review will be
 analyzed first, followed by an analysis of the Conditional Use request. Following the analysis of the two requests, staff will
 present two separate suggested motions, each to be considered and voted upon by the Planning Commission in sequence.

 Site Design Concepts
 The design concept from the beginning of this project has been to:
       Upgrade the maintenance area and buildings to the same architectural design level and building value as the rest of
         the country club buildings and site improvements, which have already been upgraded over the many years of
         operation.
       Locate the new facilities in the same general area but allow the existing functions of the maintenance area to continue
         during construction of the new facilities and then move the functions into the new facilities without operation
         interruption.
       Build a new larger building to consolidate several existing buildings into one energy efficient building, with all the
         activities and functions that are currently spread amongst three old metal buildings and include some outdoor
         activities that can be moved indoors.
       Located the new building as far north on the site as possible to act as a visual buffer and a noise buffer to the vehicle
         parking and the other outdoor
         activities that will continue.
       Design the roof structure of the new
         building to be more residential in
         appearance       to     the    abutting
         neighborhood and less industrial in
         appearance and to provide more of a
         noise and activity buffer to the
         neighbors.
       Reclaim the south half of the 2.75-
         acre disturbed site area for new open
         space use and re-vegetation and
         possible future inclusion as part of the
         golf course layout.

 Revised Site and Building Plans
 After the two neighborhood meetings were
 held, and in response to the issues which were
 raised by the community, the Willow Creek
 CC directors and the architect have submitted
 revised site and building plans, and a modified
 building design for the 16,663 square foot
 maintenance building. The following analysis
 is for the revised site and building plan.

 Access and Parking Lot Circulation
 Access and parking for employee-owned
 vehicles, for country club vehicles, and for
 deliveries of materials and supplies to the


     10000 Centennial Parkway        | S a nd y , U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   | p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   | f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   | s a n d y . u t a h . go v
Willow Creek CC Maintenance Area – SPR05172024-006771 & CUP05172024-006775                                                                                   Page 6


 maintenance area is existing and will not change or increase in intensity with the relocation and reconstruction. This same
 existing access will be used for all construction activities until completed. The new plans will relocate and formalize with
 improvements, the maintenance area parking lot to the south of the new maintenance building.

 Parking
 Parking on the maintenance facilities site is and will be restricted to employees of the maintenance facility and club vehicles
 and equipment and for materials and supplies deliveries. These activities exist now and will not increase due to the
 reconstruction. Parking is adequate for the operations. During the new construction, all construction parking and staging
 will be from the existing maintenance area portion of the site, located to the south of the proposed new facilities.

 New Building Location
 The revised site plan shifts the location of the proposed new building from 20 feet to 30 feet south of the existing property
 line. This is the same rear yard setback minimum allowed by the county zoning of the residential neighbors to the north in
 the A-1 zoning district. The rest of the new site plan has been adjusted to accommodate this building location shift and still
 allow the new facilities to be constructed north of the current site buildings and facilities.

 Architectural Building Design and Materials
 The original exterior wall building materials, being split face concrete masonry units (CMU), building colors, openings, and
 windows remain generally the same as with the first design. The wall heights have increased slightly to accommodate the
 new flat roof and its flat roof truss structure, replacing the prior pitched roof design and its resultant 35-foot building height.
 The new wall height varies slightly around the parameter of the new building, topping out at approximately 22 feet at its
 highest building face exposure point.




     10000 Centennial Parkway        | S a nd y , U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   | p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   | f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   | s a n d y . u t a h . go v
Willow Creek CC Maintenance Area – SPR05172024-006771 & CUP05172024-006775                                                                               Page 7




     10000 Centennial Parkway   | S a nd y , U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   | p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   | f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   | s a n d y . u t a h . go v
Willow Creek CC Maintenance Area – SPR05172024-006771 & CUP05172024-006775                                                                                      Page 8


 Landscaping and Irrigation
 The revised site plan and landscaping plan has been modified to increase the planting density proposed for the new 30-foot
 building setback on the north side of the new building location. These plans include introducing evergreen trees and
 deciduous trees and ground level bushes and plantings to help with buffering the neighbor’s view of the new building. The
 landscaping and the irrigation will meet the Sandy City water conservation requirements.

 Signage
 No signage is proposed as part of this site plan review.

 Fencing
 The prior plan called for a 6-foot-high solid vinyl fence to be placed along the north property line to help buffer the view of
 the new building by the neighbors abutting the building site. The country club will build or not build this screening fence,
 upon future conversations with those abutting neighbors on a property by property negotiation basis.

 Staff Concerns
 Planning staff has no additional concerns with this project. The country club has made substantial changes to the site plan
 and the building to help mitigate the neighborhood’s collective concerns.

 Conditional Use Permit Analysis
 As part of Conditional Use Permit analysis, the City may impose conditions on a Conditional Use, based upon certain
 standards of review found in section 21-33-04, “Conditional Use Permit”, of the Sandy City Land Development Code. The
 following standards of review are applicable to this request and merit discussion or additional consideration by the Planning
 Commission before an approval can be given (staff ‘s analysis response is found below each item written in italics):

Sec. 21-33-4. Conditions.
    In order to achieve compliance with the standards set forth herein, the City may impose conditions that address:
    (1) Size, configuration and location of the site and the proposed site plan layout.
 The size of the site is adequate to provide the required parking and other site improvements necessary to host the proposed new
 building and its use.
    (2) Proposed site ingress and egress to existing and proposed roads and streets.
 The proposed site improvements will provide adequate vehicle access to the site.
    (3) The adequacy, provision, relocation, or protection of public facilities and amenities, including roads and streets,
        culinary water, secondary water, sanitary sewer, storm drainage, public safety and fire protections, and other
        utilities.
 All necessary utility and street access infrastructure is present and available on site.
    (4) Design, location and amount of off-street parking, loading areas and solid waste disposal and collection areas.
 The site plan provides the required amount of off-street parking for the use of the proposed portion of the 2.75-acre disturbed
 area. A permanent dumpster and dumpster enclosure will be provided on the revised site plan.
    (5) Site circulation patterns for vehicular, pedestrian, and other traffic.
 The on-site vehicle circulation is adequate for the intended use.
    (6) Mass, size, number, location, design, exterior features, materials, and colors of buildings, structures and other
        facilities.

     10000 Centennial Parkway           | S a nd y , U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   | p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   | f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   | s a n d y . u t a h . go v
Willow Creek CC Maintenance Area – SPR05172024-006771 & CUP05172024-006775                                                                                     Page 9


 These factors have been considered and recommended for approval by the Planning Commission in the Site Plan Review
 application and determined to be appropriate and compatible. Both the proposed building setback increase from 20 to 30 feet and
 the change in the building design to the flat roof are being proposed by the applicant to mitigate reasonably anticipated impacts to
 adjoining properties.
    (7) The location and design of all site features, including proposed signage, lighting, and refuse collection.
 These factors have been addressed in the proposed site improvement plans for the project. Commercial Signage is not being
 requested by the applicant.
    (8)    The provision of useable open space, public features, and recreational amenities.
 This standard is not applicable to this project. Although the vast majority of the total 158-acre site is landscaped as a golf course,
 the property is private and therefore public access is prohibited,
    (9) Fencing, screening and landscape treatments, and other features designed to increase the attractiveness and safety of
        the site and protect adjoining property owners from noise, visual, and other impacts.
 The fencing of the north property line will be negotiated with the abutting neighbors to arrive at a mutually agreeable decision on
 fencing and range from no new fence to the six-foot-high solid vinyl fence originally proposed. Landscaping density, tree type
 variety and ground level plantings are now proposed for the rear yard building setback from the north property line to the new
 building to increase buffering of the new building visually and provide a reduction in noise transmission.
    (10) Measures directed at minimizing or eliminating possible nuisance factors, including, but not limited to, noise,
         vibrations, smoke, dust, dirt, debris, plant materials, odors, gases, noxious matter, heat, glare, electromagnetic
         disturbances, and radiation.
 This new building and its location are intended to reduce current negative impacts to adjoining properties by its very presence and
 its structure being able to better contain noises, odors, smoke, glare, human presence on the site that is visible to the abutting
 residential neighbors. Consolidating as many current activities as possible into an enclosed, and insulated building will reduce
 potentially negative effects to the abutting residential neighbors from the current and future site development and activities
    (11) The Measures designed to protect the natural features of the site, including wetlands and drainage ways, ground
         water protection, soils, wildlife, and plant life.
 The grading of the site to lower the building finished floor level and remove portions of the existing dirt mound, will remove some
 existing tree vegetation. This tree vegetation will be replaced with new tree planting of both evergreen and deciduous trees to
 eventually screen the new building from the adjoining neighbors’ back yard views. Site drainage will be improved with drainage
 infrastructure and site detention measures proposed. Site storm water runoff water quality will be improved with the introduction
 of the paved parking lot, and oil and water separator structures which will be installed.
    (12) The regulation of operating hours for activities affecting normal schedules and functions.
 Extended operating hours are not being requested, nor would they be expected for this service use.
    (13) Identifying a time for regular review and monitoring, as determined necessary, to ensure the use continues to
         operate in compliance with all conditions and requirements of approval.
 Routine business licensing and plan review processes are in place to review and monitor factors relative to the CUP operations.
 Complaints will be investigated by the City Code Enforcement Staff and resolved or forwarded to the Planning Commission for
 reconsideration and possible revocation.
    (14) Measures to assure compliance with all conditions and requirements of approval, including, but not limited to,
         bonds, letters of credit, improvement agreements, agreements to conditions, road maintenance funds, and
         restrictive covenants.


     10000 Centennial Parkway          | S a nd y , U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   | p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   | f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   | s a n d y . u t a h . go v
  Willow Creek CC Maintenance Area – SPR05172024-006771 & CUP05172024-006775                                                                                    Page 10


    All of these relative requirements will be implemented by city staff during the final review and approval processes.
       (15) Such other conditions determined reasonable and necessary by the city to allow the operation of the proposed
            conditional use, at the proposed location in compliance with the requirements of this title.
    None have been identified.
    Staff Concerns. Planning staff does not have any concerns about the approval of this conditional use. This use is existing
    and will be continued with new building and site improvements, consistent with Sandy City Code requirements and
    conditions. All the proposed site improvements will allow continuation of the existing maintenance area functions with
    better buffering of the existing neighboring properties in better facilities with less environmental impacts.

  Recommendations:
  Site Plan Review
# 1 Staff recommends that the Planning Commission determine preliminary site plan review is complete for the proposed
    relocation and reconstruction of the Willow Creek Country Club Maintenance Area facilities, located at approximately 8505
    S. Willow Creek Dr., based on the following findings and subject to the following conditions:

  Findings:
      1. That the proposed project will meet all the applicable requirements of the Sandy City Development Code and the
         Sandy City Architectural Design Standards as to building architectural design, materials and colors.

      2. That the proposed new building and site improvements to this area of the country club complex will improve the
         visual appearance of the maintenance area and provide better impact mitigation compared to the existing conditions
         and facilities.

  Conditions:
     1. That the developer proceeds through the final site plan review process with staff prior to the start of any construction.
         The final site plan shall comply with all Development Code requirements and those modifications required or allowed
         by the Planning Commission.

      2. That the development complies with all Building & Safety, Fire and Life Safety Codes applicable to this type of use.

      3. All utility boxes (i.e. transformers, switchgear, telephone, cable TV, etc.) shall be shown on the site plan and shall be
         placed underground or moved behind the front setback of the buildings and screened from view. Each box shall be
         shown in its exact location and shall be noted with its exact height, width and length. Building utility meters shall be
         mounted to the side or rear elevation or screened.

      4. That the developer be responsible for the placement of a temporary 6-foot-high chain link fence around the perimeter
         of the project during the construction phase of the project for security. Said fence shall also be required to include fabric
         to prohibit blowing dust problems, if it becomes necessary or if it is required by the Community Development
         Department during Site Plan Review.

      5. That the applicant complies with all department requirements as noted in all Preliminary Review letters prior to
         submittal for final site plan review with staff.

      6. Subject to final approval of the proposed Code Amendment CA07032024-0006794, by the City Council before final
         approval and building permit issuance.


        10000 Centennial Parkway         | S a nd y , U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   | p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   | f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   | s a n d y . u t a h . go v
  Willow Creek CC Maintenance Area – SPR05172024-006771 & CUP05172024-006775                                                                                 Page 11


  Conditional Use Permit
#2 Staff recommends that the Planning Commission approve a Conditional Use Permit for the proposed reconstruction and
   relocation of the Willow Creek Country Club’s Maintenance Area, which is an accessory and ancillary use to the “Park,
   Public and Private” and “Recreation, Outdoor” primary land use, and based upon the staff report analysis and the following
   findings and conditions:

    Findings:
      1. These uses are existing and will be continued with new building and site improvements, consistent with Sandy City
          Code requirements and conditions.

      2. All the proposed site improvements will allow continuation of the prior maintenance area functions with better
         buffering of the existing neighboring properties in better facilities with less environmental impacts.

    Conditions:

      1. That the operational hours be limited to the previous operations, seasonally adjusted.

      2. That the site plan approval conditions and the proposed site improvements be installed as part of the SPR process
         finalization.

      3. Subject to final approval of the proposed Code Amendment CA07032024-0006794, by the City Council before final
         approval and building permit issuance.


    Planner:




    Doug Wheelwright
    Development Services Manager

  File Name: S:\USERS\PLN\STAFFRPT\2024\SPR05172024-006771 WILLOW CREEK COUNTRY CLUB - MAINTENCE
  AREA\WILLOW CREEK CC MAINTENANCE AREA RECONSTRUCTION SPR AND CUP P.C. STAFF REPORT 07-18-
  2024.DOCX




        10000 Centennial Parkway      | S a nd y , U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   | p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   | f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   | s a n d y . u t a h . go v
Willow Creek CC Maintenance Area – SPR05172024-006771 & CUP05172024-006775                                                                             Page 12


                                                            Exhibit “A”




     10000 Centennial Parkway   | S a nd y , U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   | p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   | f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   | s a n d y . u t a h . go v
Willow Creek CC Maintenance Area – SPR05172024-006771 & CUP05172024-006775                                                                             Page 13


                                                    Exhibit “B”
                                     See the attached files for the full plan set




     10000 Centennial Parkway   | S a nd y , U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   | p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   | f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   | s a n d y . u t a h . go v
Willow Creek CC Maintenance Area – SPR05172024-006771 & CUP05172024-006775                                                                                Page 14


                                                               Exhibit “C”

Willow Creek Country Club Maintenance Building Neighborhood Meeting Minutes

June 10th, 2024, Meeting:
Steven Harries explained he was opposed to the project and asked if the building could be built, where the existing
structures are located. He also asked if anyone from the city council or administration/employees were members at
Willow Creek

Alex with Willow Creek explained that there are no members of the city council or administration who are members of
the country club.

Vivian Vonk explained that she had concerns about the project especially with the height being 35 feet tall and only 20
feet from the property lines and would feel better about it if it was moved to 60 feet from the property line. She also
had concerns about the maintenance of the property because the landscaping there now isn’t being maintained.

Doug Wheelwright, city staff, explained that the proposed height matches the same maximum building height allowed in
the residential neighborhood.

Steven Harries asked what variances to the standards and requirements is the country club asking for that requires a
conditional use permit from Sandy City.

James Glascock, the architect, explained that they are meeting all the requirements for the zone but it’s the use in the
zone that requires the conditional use and not the size or placement of the building.

Derek Wright with Willow Creek Country Club clarified that the purpose of the neighborhood meeting is not to
necessarily decided on solutions but to inform and collect feedback so that the applicant and developers can then make
any changes or add mitigations before it is brought to the Planning Commission.

Doug Wheelwright said yes to the comment by Mr. Wright. The purpose of the neighborhood meeting is to inform and
educate what the proposal is, then take feedback and concerns from this meeting and address them in the staff report
that will be presented to the Planning Commission for review.

Steve Fehlauer also expressed concern with the height and setbacks and asked that the proposed building be moved
further away from the residential neighborhood.

Doug Wheelwright explained the conditional use and site plan permit process and that conditional use permits can’t
really be denied but only impose conditions to mitigate impacts. He explained that the Planning Commission is the land
use authority and is the body to make sure that the concerns are mitigated.




      10000 Centennial Parkway     | S a nd y , U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   | p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   | f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   | s a n d y . u t a h . go v
Willow Creek CC Maintenance Area – SPR05172024-006771 & CUP05172024-006775                                                                                 Page 15


                                                            Exhibit “C” cont.

Willow Creek Country Club Maintenance Building Neighborhood Meeting Minutes

June 25th, 2024, Meeting:
Brad and Mindy Fogg asked about the design process of the site and if it is to accommodate a waterline or if that
waterline can be relocated. He also asked why the building needs to be 35” tall for a one-story building.

Steve Fehlauer is concerned about the height and setbacks of the proposed building. He is also concerned with the
impact and traffic that could impact the neighborhood and the entrance to the maintenance area.

Vivian Vonk is concerned about the height of the structure and had questions about the landscaping.

Todd Sheeran asked why conditional use is required if an accessory structure isn’t allowed in the OS zone and asked for
references for those requirements.

Doug Wheelwright explained that they are asking for approval for all the proposed buildings and site improvements of
the new locations and the OS requires the approval by the Planning Commission. Doug also provided the references.

Steve Harries asked about land use development code 21-10 for the OS zone and asked for clarification because
automotive repairs, auto truck storage, plant nurseries and professional offices are not allowed in the zone at all.

Doug Wheelwright explained that that is more of a general statement and it would certainly apply to a new project but
the country club is an existing use that was annexed into Sandy City in 2018 and that this is a reasonable request for a
recreational open space use like a golf course.

Steve Harries invited the planning department, developers and Planning Commission members to come to the site and
see for themselves what the residents are concerned about.

Doug Wheelwright explained that the Planning Commission does do a site visit with city staff prior to the meeting.

Dawnell Keller asked what the agenda of the open space is and why it’s so fluid.

Michelle Terry asked why the building needs to be so tall and why it’s such a high-pitched roof if it is not being used for a
second story

Doug Wheelwright explained that it was so that building would match the residential neighborhood character with the
roofing to blend in more.

Michelle Terry explained that they would prefer a flat roof that isn’t as tall instead of a residential looking pitched roof.

Lesley and Brian Paul have concerns with the setbacks of the proposed building and the noise of it being so close to the
residential neighborhood

Doug Wheelwright explained that during the construction the noise would be increased but after that there shouldn’t be
much of an impact because all of the outdoor maintenance that is currently being done would be moved inside the
building creating more of a noise buffer than what exists now.



      10000 Centennial Parkway      | S a nd y , U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   | p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   | f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   | s a n d y . u t a h . go v
Willow Creek CC Maintenance Area – SPR05172024-006771 & CUP05172024-006775                                                                                 Page 16


                                                            Exhibit “C” cont.



Lesley and Brian Paul explained that they had heard that the proposed maintenance building would have a golf
simulator and be used for other social events and are concerned about those impacts and traffic impacts.

Doug Wheelwright explained that none of those uses have been proposed.

Roxanne Fehlauer explained that she is against the project.

Nick Pappas asked about mitigations for construction workers parking in the residential neighborhood and how that
would be managed. He is also concerned about A/C cooling and generators for the building and the noise that could
produce.

Doug Wheelwright explained that there is a proposed roof top mechanical unit but that it is completely screened from
view, and that the material of the building is concrete block.

Rob Voye isn’t against the project but would like to see everyone come to an agreement to make the building smaller
somehow through the height of the proposed building to not impact the neighborhood as much.

Lenny Vonk expressed concerns with the height and would like to see the roof height reduced. He also asked about
flammable materials and fertilizers being stored onsite and what would happen if it caught fire so close to the
neighborhoods.

James Glascock, the architect, explained the design of the building and that process included trying to make it look as
residential as possible but that he could discuss changes to the design with the client. He explained that all fertilizers are
not combustible and are stored separately in the building. He explained that there is no cooling for the building besides
the office area and are only on the south side of the building which the noise would be mitigated by the building and as
far as possible from the residential areas. James explained that they can’t tear down the current buildings without the
new ones being built and that is why he has placed the proposed building where it is. He explained that all construction
parking would be provided onsite and no one would be parking in the residential neighborhood.

Derek Wright with Willow Creek explained that building only has internal access or utilized space on the south side, the
rest of the building will not be used to mitigate noise. He also explained that no social uses or areas are planned or
proposed for the building and that it is for maintenance staff only.

James Glascock also explained that he will work with the Willow Creek Country Club committee to find ways to mitigate
all of these concerns as much as possible. He also explained that there is a waterline that goes through the parking lot
but that was not a factor in the site design.

Jason King expressed concerns with the placement and size of the building and if a buffer for the building could be
landscaped and the building could be pushed further away instead to help mitigate the impact.

James Glascock explained that the new parking lot location is also a buffer.




      10000 Centennial Parkway      | S a nd y , U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   | p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   | f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   | s a n d y . u t a h . go v
Willow Creek CC Maintenance Area – SPR05172024-006771 & CUP05172024-006775                                                                                Page 17


                                                           Exhibit “C” cont.

GENERAL INFORMATION AND STAFF RESPONSES TO QUESTIONS RAISED ABOUT THE WILLOW CREEK CC MAINTENANCE
AREA RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT SITE PLAN REVIEW AND CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT, JUNE 25, 2024, PART OF
NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING PRESENTATION.

   1.     Sandy City Development Code Verses International Zoning Code (IZC). Neither the State of Utah nor Sandy City
         has adopted the IZC. Sandy City follows state law regarding zoning and land use regulation. Sandy City’s Zoning
         Ordinance is codified as Title 21 of the City Code, known as the Sandy City Development Code. There are
         approximately 500 pages to this ordinance. The are three main chapters in the development code that relate to
         this project specifically: Chapter 21-10, Open Space Zone; Chapter 21-32, Site Plan Review; and Chapter 21-33,
         Conditional Use Permit.
   2.    Land Use Authority. The designated Land Use Authority for these requested actions is the Sandy City Planning
         Commission. Decisions of the Planning commission are final. These actions are not appealable to the City Council
         or Mayor. Appeals of decisions of the Planning Commission by City Code and State law are to the Sandy City
         Board of Adjustment and then to the District Court.
   3.    Current construction activity or permitting. No construction activity has been approved for the site to date.
         Construction starts are only authorized after completion of the Site Plan Review Process and issuance of a
         building permit from the City.
   4.    Prior site development activities by the Country Club. It has been stated that the Country Club has altered their
         property in the past without notice or public process. This property was under the zoning and development
         review processes of Salt Lake County prior to its annexation into Sandy City on December 26, 2018. This is the
         first project proposed under Sandy City’s jurisdiction and processes.
   5.    View Protection. Sandy City does not guarantee any view protection through its development regulations. It is
         prohibited by State law. Viewshed protection is only available through ownership of the property or an
         easement. These would be private arrangements that the City is not involved in. There is some measure of view
         impact mitigation through the City zoning established building location limits on the property, its setbacks and
         building height limits. Tree planting on private property is not restricted as to location spacing or ultimate
         growing height, and these can limit existing viewsheds over time as they grow.
   6.    Property value protections. The City does not guarantee protections for perceived loss of property values. It is
         not a public responsibility. Loss of value claims are very subjective and difficult to establish.
   7.    Environmental Impact Studies. Unlike in California, EIS’s are not required by the State or County or local
         governments for new building projects. If there has been experiences with leaky underground storage tanks of
         petroleum products, there is a State of Utah process for addressing that. A level one environmental assessment
         is usually the vehicle to try to identify environmental damage at a site. Upon evidence or presumption, the City
         can require a level one environmental assessment to be performed. All new construction will be required to
         protect against environmental contamination through the zoning and life safety codes.




        10000 Centennial Parkway   | S a nd y , U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   | p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   | f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   | s a n d y . u t a h . go v
