                                                                                                                                         10000 South Centennial

                                                          Sandy City                                                                     Parkway Suite 231
                                                                                                                                         Sandy, UT 84070

                                                         Council Office                                                                  O| 801-568-7141
                                                                                                                                         Sandy.Utah.Gov




                                                                     MEMORANDUM

                                                                   December 10, 2024

To:                         City Council Members

CC:                         Dustin Fratto, Council Executive Director
                            James Sorensen, Community Development Director
                            Jake Warner, Long Range Planning Manager

From:                       Marci Houseman, Council Member District 4

Subject:                    Proposed Amendment to Section 5 of the Draft General Plan



This evening staff will present Section 5: Economic Development of the Draft Sandy Pace of Progress
General Plan to the Council. One of the Key Strategies that they will cover is to “Bolster Commercial
Centers” within the city. As a part of this key strategy several Goals, Objectives, Policies, and Actions are
proposed to help us align our efforts to the identified strategy. I have identified an opportunity to
further refine our strategic approach through the addition of an important policy.

As many of you know, during the 2022 Utah Legislative Session, the State Legislature adopted House Bill
0015, which was sponsored by Rep. Susan Pulsipher. HB15, in short, provides the City with new and
exciting ways to help Sandy businesses more easily offer their employees onsite childcare. According to
the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, The percentage of dual-income households with children under age
18 has been on the rise since the 1960’s. At present, among households with children, dual-income
households make up two-thirds (66 percent) of the total. 1 These statistics are part of a compelling story
displaying the need for more and better childcare for working parents. And who better provide that care
than those parents’ employers?

While large businesses often have the resources to provide their employees with childcare, smaller
businesses may not. As a city, we have the opportunity to utilize a State Legislature approved pathway
for assisting Sandy small businesses with accessing resources to offer childcare for their employees. This
pathway is a tool that could help Sandy small businesses attract and retain highly qualified employees.
It may also provide incentives for current small businesses to remain in Sandy and new small businesses
to locate to Sandy.

In conclusion, I propose that the Council add the below highlighted Policy and Action language to the
Goals, Policies, Objectives, and Actions of Section 5 of the Draft General Plan.



1
    U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. (2020, September). Comparing characteristics and selected expenditures of dual- and single-income households with children.
                             Monthly Labor Review. Retrieved from https://www.bls.gov/opub/mlr/2020/article/comparing-characteristics-and-selected-
                             expenditures-of-dual-and-single-income-households-with-children.htm
Sandy Pace of Progress General Plan Section 5: Economic Development
Goals, Objectives, Policies, and Actions

GOAL: SANDY’S ECONOMIC BASE CONTINUES TO PROVIDE SUPPORT AND OPPORTUNITIES FOR
COMMUNITY PRIORITIES

OBJECTIVE Sandy’s commercial areas and business development policies continue to attract and
support targeted national and global employers

POLICIES & ACTIONS

   •   Create, implement, and update on a regular basis Sandy’s Economic Development Strategy
   •   Work closely with private sector partners to identify opportunities to leverage city activities and
       investments to increase private sector investment

OBJECTIVE Sandy’s policies and programs foster small businesses and entrepreneurship

POLICIES & ACTIONS

   •   Actively identify strategies and investments that support small locally owned businesses
   •   Identify and implement best practices in encouraging the inclusion of small-locally owned
       businesses in new and redeveloped areas
   •   Advance the recruitment and retention efforts of Sandy small businesses by utilizing State
       authorized tools to improve and increase access to high quality childcare for the businesses and
       their employees

OBJECTIVE Expand business attraction and retention efforts in The Cairns and Neighborhood Activity
Centers

POLICIES & ACTIONS

   •   Coordinate closely with property owners and developers in The Cairns and Neighborhood
       Activity Center areas to identify strategies that support implementation of the city’s goals
   •   Utilize state authorized tools to facilitate redevelopment of targeted areas to meet the city’s
       vision citywide and across subarea
