                                                                                       10000 South Centennial

                                    Sandy City                                         Parkway Suite 231
                                                                                       Sandy, UT 84070

                                   Council Office                                      O| 801-568-7141
                                                                                       Sandy.Utah.Gov




                                           MEMORANDUM

                                         December 17, 2024

To:              City Council Members

CC:              Dustin Fratto, Council Executive Director
                 James Sorensen, Community Development Director
                 Jake Warner, Long Range Planning Manager

From:            Cyndi Sharkey, Council Member At-large

Subject:         Proposed Amendment to Section 7 of the Draft General Plan



Section 7 of the Draft General Plan addresses land uses and densities throughout Sandy City. I propose
that the council considers the adoption of the following changes:

      1.    Eliminate the RLN designation within the residential category of the Future Land Use
            Dashboards.
      2.    Eliminate the establishment of a minimum density in all land use designations.

Properties with the currently-proposed RLN designation would instead be designated as LN, consistent
with the vast majority of Sandy’s residential neighborhoods. This change grants greater equity to
Sandy’s private property owners citywide, while also equalizing and extending flexibility and value for
private property owners currently designated as RLN. If adopted, the Future Land Use Map would be
updated accordingly, replacing the RLN designation with the LN designation. Any other references to the
RLN designation elsewhere in the General Plan would be updated or removed.

Minimum densities in all land use designations identified within the Future Land Use Dashboard would
be eliminated in favor of substituting the language “up to xx DUA” (Dwelling Units per Acre). This
language still conveys a density upper limit as envisioned by the City, but allows a greater measure of
flexibility to the private property owner when contemplating improvements. If adopted, these
amendments would be made to every land use designation in Section 7 between pages T19 – T41 and
elsewhere in the General Plan, as needed. Designations with a density element of “NA” need not be
amended.
