
MEMORANDUM

September 27th, 2024

To: 	City Council Members

CC:	Dustin Fratto, Council Executive Director Shane Pace, Chief Administrative Officer

From: 	Alison Stroud, Council Member
Aaron Dekeyzer, Council Member 
 	Brook D’Sousa, Council Member

Subject:	First Reading: Amendment to the Land Development Code to permit tattoo shops in commercial zones.
Background:
Our current land use regulations do not permit the operation of tattoo shops outside Sandy City's industrial zones. In evaluating the business landscape of surrounding communities, it is apparent that many of them permit tattoo shops to operate under various conditions in commercial zones. These establishments have become increasingly mainstream and contribute to the cultural and economic vitality of their respective areas. Currently business owners looking to locate a tattoo shop in Sandy City are forced to look to a neighboring community and likewise any residents who seek out this service must look elsewhere. 
Proposal:
We propose that our Community Development staff prepare a comprehensive review and draft a code amendment around the guidelines in this memo that would permit tattoo shops to operate within commercial zones. Through our standard Land Development Code amendment process the Community Development Staff and Planning Commission will have the opportunity to draft an effective code amendment, and our residents would have the opportunity for important input. The desired result would be the Planning Commission forwarding a recommended code amendment for the City Council to consider. The amendment should be carefully tailored to ensure that it aligns with the character of Sandy City and balances the needs of our residents and business community, while possibly broadening where tattoo shops are permitted in Sandy City.
Rationale:
	•	Economic Development: Tattoo shops can attract a diverse clientele, contributing to the local economy and increasing activity in commercial areas.
	•	Cultural Acceptance: The perception of tattoo shops has evolved significantly over the past decades. These businesses are now widely accepted and often celebrated for their contributions to the business scene.
Precedent in Surrounding Communities: Nearby cities including. South Jordan, Midvale, Draper, Murray and Riverton all allow tattoo shops with varying degrees of regulation. Learning from their experiences can help us craft an approach that suits our community's needs.
Council Action:
As this is a first reading, tonight we’re looking for the Councils feedback on our proposal.  Once we receive your feedback, we as sponsors, are looking for your direction to work together and with professional staff to further tailor the direction that we will then recommend the council give to the Community Development Department and Planning Commission during a future second reading.

 
