                                                      S ANDY CITY C O M M UN IT Y D E V EL O P ME N T
                                                                                                                                                      JAMES SORENSEN
                                                                                                                                                   COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
                                                                                                                                                         DIRECTOR

                                                                                                                                                        MONICA ZOLTANSKI
                                                                                                                                                            MAYOR

                                                                                                                                                        SHANE E. PACE
                                                                                                                                                     CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE
                                                                                                                                                            OFFICER




                                            Staff Report Memorandum
                                                                       May 16, 2024


 To:                   City Council via Planning Commission
 From:                 Community Development Department
 Subject:              Amendments to Title 21 of the Land Development Code                                                                 CA04182024-0006755
                       related to Accessory Apartments (aka Internal Accessory
                       Dwelling Units (IADUs))


 Public Hearing Notice: This item has been noticed on public websites, sent to affected entities and
                                                 posted in three public locations at least 10 days prior to the Public Hearing.


Request
 On behalf of Sandy City, the Community Development Department is proposing to amend Title 21, Land Development
 Code, Chapter 11, Special Use Standards, Section 1, Accessory Apartments, Extended Living Areas and Guesthouses. The code
 amendments would ensure the standards for Internal Accessory Dwelling Units are consistent with Utah Code. The specific
 amendments to the Land Development Code are included as Exhibit “A” (red-lined version) and Exhibit “B” (clean version).

Background
 During the 2023 Utah Legislative Session, Senate Bill 174 was passed, which enacted language that modify standards for
 internal accessory dwelling units (IADUs) (see UCA 10-9a-530), which Sandy City Code defines as “accessory apartments”.
 The new legislation restricts cities from requiring internal connectivity between the primary dwelling and the internal
 accessory dwelling unit. Cities are also restricted from requiring an additional parking space if four off-street parking spaces
 are already required. The proposed code amendment will bring the City’s land use code under Sec. 21-11-1 into compliance
 with these state law provisions.

                                                                        Case History
        Case Number                                                                               Case Summary
                                                  The code amendment implements HB082, which was adopted during the 2021
     Ord. No. 21-28
                                                  Utah Legislative Session regarding internal accessory dwelling units (I-ADUs),
  CAO08052021-0006126
                                                  known in Sandy as “accessory apartments.”

Public Notice
 The city issued notice of the public hearing for the proposed code amendments on public websites, mailed notice to affected
 entities and posted in three public locations at least 10 days prior to the Planning Commission public hearing in accordance
   1 0 0 0 0 C e n t e n n i a l Pa r k w a y   | S a n d y, U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   |   p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   |   f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8    |   s a n d y . u t a h . g ov
Internal Accessory Apartments (IADUs) – CA04182024-0006755                                                                                                                Page 2

 with the Land Development Code Sec. 21-36-1 and the Utah State Code § 10-9a-205.

Analysis
 Currently, the Land Development Code requires all internal accessory dwelling units to have internal connectivity between
 the primary dwelling and the accessory dwelling unit. The Code also requires one off-street parking space for the internal
 accessory dwelling unit, in addition to the four off-street parking spaces that are required for all single-family homes. Neither
 provision is consistent with Utah State Code.


 The proposed code amendment will bring the City’s Land Development Code into compliance with state law by removing
 the requirements for internal connectivity between the primary dwelling and the internal accessory dwelling unit, and by
 requiring compliance with existing off-street parking requirements for single-family homes (see section 21-20-05). That
 means that an attached or detached two car garage with space for at least two other parking spaces in the driveway must be
 provided to qualify for an accessory living area. The specific language of the proposed code amendment is shown under
 Exhibit “A” (red-lined version) and Exhibit “B” (clean version).

Non-Conforming Uses
 This code amendment would not create any non-conforming situations.

Land Development Code Purpose Compliance
 The Sandy City Land Development Code in 21-1-3 lists the criteria explaining the intent and purpose of the Ordinance.
 The purpose is:
       21-1-3 Purpose
       This Code is adopted to implement Sandy City’s General Plan and to promote public health, safety, convenience,
       aesthetics, welfare; efficient use of land; sustainable land use and building practices; transportation options and
       accessibility; crime prevention; timely citizen involvement in land use decision making; and efficiency in development
       review and land use administration. Specifically, this Code is established to promote the following purposes:
       1. General
          a. To facilitate the orderly growth and development of Sandy City.
          b. To facilitate adequate provision for transportation, water, sewage, schools, parks, and other public
             requirements.
          c. To stabilize property values.
          d. To enhance the economic well-being of Sandy City and its inhabitants.
       2. Implementation of General Plan
          To coordinate and ensure the implementation of the City’s General Plan through effective execution of
          development review requirements, adequate facility and services review and other goals, policies, or programs
          contained in the General Plan.
       3. Comprehensive, Consistent and Equitable Regulations
          To establish a system of fair, comprehensive, consistent and equitable regulations, standards and procedures for
          review and approval of all proposed land development within the City.
       4. Efficiently and Effectively Managed Procedures
          a. To promote fair procedures that are efficient and effective in terms of time and expense.
          b. To be effective and responsive in terms of the allocation of authority and delegation of powers and duties
               among ministerial, appointed, and elected officials.
          c. To foster a positive customer service attitude and to respect the rights of all applicants and affected citizens.


      1 0 0 0 0 C e n t e n n i a l Pa r k w a y   | S a n d y, U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   |   p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   |   f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   |   s a n d y . u t a h . g ov
Internal Accessory Apartments (IADUs) – CA04182024-0006755                                                                                                                Page 3

 The proposed code amendment is consistent with the purpose of the Land Development Code because the proposal
 promotes the public health, safety and welfare; ensures consistency and equitable standards; establishes fair procedures that
 are efficient and effective in terms of time and expense; facilitates the orderly growth and development of Sandy City; and
 is consistent with the Sandy City General Plan.

General Plan Compliance
 The Sandy City General Plan encourages appropriate development standards for all uses and zoning categories within the
 city. The proposed code amendment furthers that goal and objective by establishing appropriate land development standards
 for all uses and zoning categories within Sandy City.

Recommendation
 Staff recommends that the Planning Commission forward a positive recommendation to the City Council to amend Title
 21, of the Sandy Municipal Code, related to accessory apartments as shown in Exhibit “A”, based on the following findings:

Findings:
    1. The City Council may amend land use ordinances consistent with the purposes of the Sandy Land Development
       Code, the Sandy City General Plan, and the Utah Code, Municipal Land Use, Development, and Management Act
       per Title 21 Chapter 5 of the Sandy Municipal Code.
   2. The proposal is reviewed by the Planning Commission and City Council in accordance with the requirements of Title
      21 Chapter 5 of the Sandy Municipal Code.
   3. The proposal complies with the purpose of the Land Development Code under Section 21-1-03 by promoting the
      public health, safety, and welfare; ensuring consistent and equitable standards; establishing fair procedures that are
      efficient and effective in terms of time and expense; and by facilitating the orderly growth and development of Sandy
      City.
   4. The proposal complies with the Goals and Policies of the General Plan by establishing appropriate development
      standards for all uses and zoning categories within Sandy City.

 Planner:




 Brynn Bohlender
 Zoning Technician

 Exhibits:
    A. Proposed code amendments (red-lined version)
    B. Proposed code amendments (clean version)


 File Name: S:\USERS\PLN\STAFFRPT\2024\CA04182024-0006755 - IADU CODE AMENDMENT\STAFF REPORT\STAFF REPORT - IADU CODE
 AMENDMENT.FINAL.DOCX




      1 0 0 0 0 C e n t e n n i a l Pa r k w a y   | S a n d y, U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   |   p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   |   f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   |   s a n d y . u t a h . g ov
