                                                      S ANDY CITY C O M M UN IT Y D E V EL O P ME N T
                                                                                                                                                      JAMES SORENSEN
                                                                                                                                                   COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
                                                                                                                                                         DIRECTOR

                                                                                                                                                        MONICA ZOLTANSKI
                                                                                                                                                            MAYOR

                                                                                                                                                        SHANE E. PACE
                                                                                                                                                     CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE
                                                                                                                                                            OFFICER




                                            Staff Report Memorandum
                                                                   October 17, 2024


 To:                   City Council via Planning Commission
 From:                 Community Development Department
 Subject:              Amendments to Title 21 of the Land Development Code                                                                 CA08222024-0006816
                       related to Short Term Rentals


 Public Hearing Notice: This item has been noticed on public websites, sent to affected entities and
                                                 posted in three public locations at least 10 days prior to the Public Hearing.


Request
 At the request of the City Council, the Community Development Department is proposing to amend Title 21, Land
 Development Code, Chapter 11, Special Use Standards, Section 26, Residential Short-Term Rental (STR). The code amendments
 update and clarify the application requirements and land use standards of residential short term rentals in Sandy City. The
 specific amendments to the Land Development Code are included as Exhibit “A” (red-lined version) and Exhibit “B” (clean
 version).

Background
 The Short-Term Rental (STR) requirements (Sec. 21-11-26) allow residential property owners to rent their dwelling or a
 portion of their dwelling as a STR if they maintain occupancy of the home as their primary residence (at least half the calendar
 year). On August 13, 2024, the City Council held a second reading on proposed amendments to the STR regulations and
 made a motion for city staff to bring a proposal for code amendment through the public hearing process. Staff have prepared
 several proposed amendments to the STR code section which represents a refined version of the original City Council proposal
 for code amendments, as outlined in this report, and shown in the exhibits. A response to Council questions pertaining to
 budget impacted items is also included in this report as Exhibit “C.”

                                                                          Case History
         Case Number                                                                               Case Summary
          Ord. No. 98-35                          Creation of new land use regulations for residential districts and a new
            CA#98-H                               definition for Residential Short Term Lease. (9-25-1998)
                                                  Update to the STR definition prohibited the use of short-term rentals less than
         Ord. No. 99-54.                          30 days in all residential districts and is the same definition we have in our
                                                  current code. (10-21-1999)

   1 0 0 0 0 C e n t e n n i a l Pa r k w a y   | S a n d y, U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   |   p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   |   f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8    |   s a n d y . u t a h . g ov
Amendments Related to Short Term Rentals – CA08222024-0006816                                                                                                           Page 2

       Ord. No. 18-21                              An ordinance creating regulations for Residential, Short-Term Rentals (STR).
      CODE-06-18-5441                              (8-30-2018)
                                                   Amendments to Title 21 to implement state legislation regarding internal
       Ord. No. 21-28
                                                   dwelling units (I-ADUs), known in Sandy as accessory apartments, and minor
    CA08052021-0006126
                                                   amendments to the STR section of code for consistency. (9-28-2021)
                                                   Amendments to Title 21 related to removing fines from the Land Development
       Ord. No. 24-17
                                                   Code and placing fines in the fee schedule, as outlined in Title 1, Chapter 4 of
    CA09032024-0006833
                                                   the Municipal Code (and found within the budget). (October 2024)

Public Notice
 The city issued notice of the public hearing for the proposed code amendments on public websites, mailed notice to affected
 entities and posted in three public locations at least 10 days prior to the Planning Commission public hearing in accordance
 with the Land Development Code Sec. 21-36-1 and the Utah State Code § 10-9a-205.

Budget Analysis
 After the City Council directed staff to amend the STR regulations, the Council submitted follow-up questions to staff
 pertaining to budgetary considerations for administering STRs. These questions relate to the purchase of STR tracking
 software, annual reviews of STR permits/licenses for compliance, and creating educational resources for STR operators. Staff
 recognize the value of all these ideas, but they each have different cost implications for implementation which is outlined in
 a separate memo. The memo provides a detailed response and is included with this report as Exhibit “C.”

Analysis
 A summary of the proposed code amendments for STRs is described below:
         All the application requirements are consolidated into one section for better organization of the code.
         A requirement for compliance certification by the owner and their renters to adhere to the code standards is added.
         A requirement for the owner to complete a short term rental management certification prior to applying for a STR
          permit is added.
         The distinction between related vs. unrelated people renting the STR is removed, thereby allowing up to eight
          renters regardless of family affiliation.
         The requirement to obtain an accessory apartment special use permit in conjunction with the STR permit is
          removed because there are adequate checks and balances in the permitting procedure without this redundancy.
         The code language is revised to make clear that the whole dwelling may be rented out up to 182 per year, while a
          portion of the dwelling may be rented out throughout the year, as long as the owner occupies the dwelling as their
          primary residence.
         A parking plan is added to the application requirements, and the parking plan standards are clarified.
         The standards for noise control are improved by citing both the Sandy City code and the Salt Lake County code.
         A requirement to maintain an adequate number of operational smoke alarms and carbon monoxide detectors is
          added to the maintenance standards.
         The standards for the packet of information that must be available for renters are improved and strengthened.
         The specific time when a permit expires is clarified.
         With the anticipated hiring of an Administrative Law Judge, a reference to Title 1 Chapter 4 of the City Code for
          enforcement actions has been added.
         Lastly, in a separate ordinance the City Council will consider an amendment to Title 15, Business Licensing of the
          Code, which will add a requirement for verification of owner occupancy to the business license renewal standards.

      1 0 0 0 0 C e n t e n n i a l Pa r k w a y   | S a n d y, U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   |   p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   |   f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   |   s a n d y . u t a h . g ov
Amendments Related to Short Term Rentals – CA08222024-0006816                                                                                                           Page 3




Non-Conforming Uses
 This code amendment would not create any non-conforming situations.

Land Development Code Purpose Compliance
 The Sandy City Land Development Code in 21-1-3 lists the criteria explaining the intent and purpose of the Ordinance.
 The purpose is:
       21-1-3 Purpose
       This Code is adopted to implement Sandy City’s General Plan and to promote public health, safety, convenience,
       aesthetics, welfare; efficient use of land; sustainable land use and building practices; transportation options and
       accessibility; crime prevention; timely citizen involvement in land use decision making; and efficiency in development
       review and land use administration. Specifically, this Code is established to promote the following purposes:
       1. General
          a. To facilitate the orderly growth and development of Sandy City.
          b. To facilitate adequate provision for transportation, water, sewage, schools, parks, and other public
             requirements.
          c. To stabilize property values.
          d. To enhance the economic well-being of Sandy City and its inhabitants.
       2. Implementation of General Plan
          To coordinate and ensure the implementation of the City’s General Plan through effective execution of
          development review requirements, adequate facility and services review and other goals, policies, or programs
          contained in the General Plan.
       3. Comprehensive, Consistent and Equitable Regulations
          To establish a system of fair, comprehensive, consistent and equitable regulations, standards and procedures for
          review and approval of all proposed land development within the City.
       4. Efficiently and Effectively Managed Procedures
          a. To promote fair procedures that are efficient and effective in terms of time and expense.
          b. To be effective and responsive in terms of the allocation of authority and delegation of powers and duties
               among ministerial, appointed, and elected officials.
          c. To foster a positive customer service attitude and to respect the rights of all applicants and affected citizens.

 The proposed code amendment is consistent with the purpose of the Land Development Code because the proposal
 promotes the public health, safety and welfare; ensures consistency and equitable standards; establishes fair procedures that
 are efficient and effective in terms of time and expense; facilitates the orderly growth and development of Sandy City; and
 is consistent with the Sandy City General Plan.

General Plan Compliance
 The Sandy City General Plan encourages appropriate development standards for all uses and zoning categories within the
 city. The proposed code amendment furthers that goal and objective by establishing appropriate land development standards
 for all uses and zoning categories within Sandy City.

Recommendation
 Staff recommends that the Planning Commission forward a positive recommendation to the City Council to amend Title
 21, of the Sandy Municipal Code, relating to Short Term Rentals as shown in Exhibit “A,” based on the following findings:

      1 0 0 0 0 C e n t e n n i a l Pa r k w a y   | S a n d y, U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   |   p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   |   f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   |   s a n d y . u t a h . g ov
Amendments Related to Short Term Rentals – CA08222024-0006816                                                                                                           Page 4


Findings:
    1. The City Council may amend land use ordinances consistent with the purposes of the Sandy Land Development
       Code, the Sandy City General Plan, and the Utah Code, Municipal Land Use, Development, and Management Act
       per Title 21 Chapter 5 of the Sandy Municipal Code.
   2. The proposal is reviewed by the Planning Commission and City Council in accordance with the requirements of Title
      21 Chapter 5 of the Sandy Municipal Code.
   3. The proposal complies with the purpose of the Land Development Code under Section 21-1-03 by promoting the
      public health, safety, and welfare; ensuring consistent and equitable standards; establishing fair procedures that are
      efficient and effective in terms of time and expense; and by facilitating the orderly growth and development of Sandy
      City.
   4. The proposal complies with the Goals and Policies of the General Plan by establishing appropriate development
      standards for all uses and zoning categories within Sandy City.

 Planner:




 Melissa Anderson
 Zoning Administrator

 Exhibits:
    A. Proposed code amendments (red-lined version)
    B. Proposed code amendments (clean version)
    C. Budgetary Considerations Related to Short Term Rentals


 File Name: S:\USERS\PLN\STAFFRPT\2024\CA08222024-0006816 - STR CODE AMENDMENT\STAFF REPORT\STAFF REPORT -STR
 UPDATE.FINAL.DOCX




      1 0 0 0 0 C e n t e n n i a l Pa r k w a y   | S a n d y, U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   |   p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   |   f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   |   s a n d y . u t a h . g ov
                                                   Exhibit “A”

Sec. 21-11-26.Residential Short-Term Rental (STR).
(a)   Purpose. This sSection is established to provide regulations and design standards for residential short-term
      rentals (STRs) related to single family and multifamily neighborhoods. These standards seek to allow for STRs
      while also protecting the safety and general welfare of Sandy residents and preserving the residential
      character of Sandy neighborhoods. In allowing STRs, it this Section provides existing property homeowners
      economic relief who might otherwise be forced to leave a neighborhood, thus promoting and preserving
      affordable housing in Sandy City. This sSection also intends to stabilize neighborhoods by promoting home
      ownership and preserving long term rental housing in the market.
(b)   Residential Short-Term Rental (STR) Special Use Permit and License Required. A STR is prohibitedSTRs in all
      residential dwellings, residential districts, residential PUD districts and residential SD districts without are
      required to first obtaining a STR special use permit as regulated in this sSection, and being issued a valid
      short-term rental business license (STRL), as regulated by Chapter 15-11. The following are exempt and shall
      not be subject to the provisions of this sSection:
      (1)   A residential lease of 30 or more consecutive days.
      (2)   Bed and breakfasts, hotels, and motels, as described and regulated in the Sandy Land Development
            Code and this Sandy City Code, shall not be subject to the provisions of this section.
(c)   General Standards and Requirements for STR Special Use Permits. A STR use may be allowed within any
      existing legal owner-occupied residential dwelling by an administrative STR special use permit and business
      license from the Community Development Department, wherein the pursuant to an application that
      demonstrates compliance with requirements found in the Sandy Land Development Code, and this Sandy
      City Code, and all of the following standards and requirements:
      (1)   Application. A completed STR application, as provided by Sandy City, shall be submitted to the
            Community Development Department. Only the owner, as defined in Section 15-11-1, may apply for an
            STR special use permit. A complete STR application shall include:
            a.    Proof of Ownership. Proof of ownership of the STR property shall be provided. The applicant shall
                  prove ownership of the property as evidenced by a copy of a transfer deed listing the applicant
                  as the fee title owner. Fee title owner may be an individual or trustor of a family trust that
                  possesses 50 percent or more ownership of the proposed STR. The fee title owner may not be a
                  corporation, partnership, limited liability company, or similar entity.
            b.    Conflict of Private Restrictions. The owner shall provide a signed affidavit sworn before a notary
                  public that certifies to the City that the subject property has no existing private covenants,
                  conditions, or restrictions prohibiting STRs.
            c.    Proof of Owner Occupancy. The owner shall show proof that the STR property is the owner's
                  primary residence by submitting all the following documentation:
                  1.    The owner's most recent State and Federal tax returns both listing the property as the
                        owner's primary residence; and
                  2.    A government-issued identification document listing the address of the property as the
                        address of the owner; and
                  3.    A signed affidavit sworn before a notary public shall be provided by the owner stating that
                        the proposed property is the primary residence of the owner, and the owner will remain as
                        the primary occupant of the homedwelling for the duration of thisthe STR special use
                        permit, wherein they reside at least 183 days per calendar year.
            d.    Short Term Rental Management Certification. The owner shall show proof of successful
                  completion of a STR management certification, as determined by staff. The owner need only
                  complete one STR management certification to satisfy this requirement.



                                                      Page 1 of 5
                                            Exhibit “A”

     e.    Parking Plan. A detailed written description and drawing of an off-street parking plan shall be
           submitted, in accordance with this Section, to ensure there is sufficient on-site parking capacity
           for all occupants of the home and renters of the STR.
     f.    Compliance Certification. The owner shall provide a signed affidavit sworn before a notary public
           that certifies to the City that the owner agrees to comply with the terms and conditions of this
           ordinance and to ensure each renter complies with the terms and conditions of this ordinance.
     (2)g. Property Description. A detailed written description, and/or drawing a site plan of the property,
           and an interior layout that identifies the use of each room of the dwelling, location of all smoke
           and carbon monoxide detectors, and defines the portions of the dwelling to be used for a STR
           shall be provided. Only one designated STR area is allowed for a property.
(32) Owner Occupancy. The owner of the subject property shall live in the primary dwelling in which a STR is
     desired, and must reside therein as their primary residence for a minimum of 183 days per calendar
     year.
     a.    An individual shall prove ownership of the property as evidenced by a copy of a transfer deed
           listing the applicant as the fee title owner. Fee title owner may be an individual or trustor of a
           family trust that possesses 50 percent or more ownership of the proposed STR. The fee title
           owner may not be a corporation, partnership, limited liability company, or similar entity.
     b.    To establish that the property is the owner's primary residence, the owner shall:
           1.    Present the owner's most recent State and Federal tax returns both listing the property as
                 the owner's primary residence; and
           2.    Present a government-issued identification document listing the address of the property as
                 the address of the owner; and
           3.    A signed affidavit sworn before a notary public shall be provided by the owner stating that
                 the proposed property is the primary residence of the owner and will remain as the
                 primary occupant of the home for the duration of this special use permit, wherein they
                 reside at least 183 days per calendar year.
(43) Occupancy During Rental Period. The subject property STR shall comply with the following occupancy
     restrictions:
     a.    The maximum renter occupancy shall be no more than eight related people. or four unrelated
           people in the area to be used for a STR and the maximum occupancy shall not include the owner.
     b.    The propertyA STR shall not be rented to more than one renter at any given time (this applies to
           both short and long-term rental), and the owner shall not divide and rent out portions of the
           dwelling to multiple renters at the same time.
     c.    A property shall not be rented as a STR for more than 182 nights per year.
           1.    The owner may reside on the property while it is occupied by a renter.
     2.    The STR property shall only be rented for a minimum duration of one night and a maximum
           duration of 29 consecutive nights.
     3d.   There must be a renter vacancy period of one consecutive night between each rental.
     de.   A STR property where the whole dwelling is rented out shall not be rented more than 182 per
           year. A STR property where a portion of the dwelling is rented out may be rented for up to 365
           nights per year.A property with a valid accessory apartment special use permit may use the
           apartment as a STR and have the accessory apartment be rented for up to 365 nights per year.
           The owner may not reside in or use the accessory apartment unit STR portion of the dwelling
           while it is occupied by a renter.



                                               Page 2 of 5
                                             Exhibit “A”

(54) Parking Plan. A detailed written description and/or a drawing of an off-street parking plan must be
     provided is required to ensure that there is sufficient on-site parking capacity for all occupants of the
     home and renters of the STR can be accommodated on-site at all times. The Pparking plan shall be
     limited to the existing garage, driveway, and dedicated parking spots of the residential unit and may
     shall not include any on-street parking. Any proposed parking improvements may also be included in
     the off-street parking plan, so long as they are completed prior to issuance of a STRL. All elements of
     the parking plan must be in compliance with all other requirements of this tTitle. The owner shall
     ensure that all renters of a STR comply with the Parking Plan.
(6)   Conflict of Private Restrictions. The owner shall provide a signed affidavit sworn before a notary public
      that certifies to the City that the subject property has no existing private covenants, conditions, or
      restrictions prohibiting STRs.
(75) Urgent Response. The owner, or a designated representative, shall be available to immediately respond
     to the STR 24 hours per day, 365 days per year by telephone, and when necessary, be able to physically
     respond to the STR within one hour of any legitimate complaint. If the owner is unreachable after three
     attempted contacts by Sandy the City, the City shall issue a nNotice of vViolation will be issued to the
     owner.
(86) Property Maintenance Requirements. All short-term rentals STRs shall adhere to this Code, including,
     but not limited to the following:
      a.    Maintenance. OwnersThe owner must adhere to Title 19, the Property Maintenance cChapter of
            this Code, including, but not limited to, requirements for weed abatement, landscaping, garbage
            removal, structure maintenance, and fence/wall maintenance.
      b.    Snow Removal. OwnersThe owner shall remove all snow from the sidewalks of the property
            within 24 hours after snowfall in accordance with this Code.
      c.    Noise and Nuisance Control. OwnersThe owner shall ensure that all renters are aware of and
            adhere to Chapter 13-2 the nNoise cControl cChapter of this Code and Salt Lake County Health
            Department Health Regulation No. 21: Community Noise Pollution Control. ShouldIf a renter
            violates the nNoise cControl cChapter more than once in any given 72-hour period, theythe
            owner shall be immediately evicted all renters from the property by the owner.
      d.    Health and Safety. The owner shall ensure that the dwelling or the rented portion of the dwelling
            maintains at least one working smoke alarm in each sleeping area and on each floor, and at least
            one working carbon monoxide detector on each floor.
(97) Noticing and Posting Requirements.
      a.    One nameplate sign that includes the name and the 24/7 contact information for the owner, or a
            designated representative, must be posted on the exterior side of the main entrance of the STR.
      b.    An informational packet must be posted in a highly visible place within the dwelling or the STR
            area of the dwelling, and must include all of the following:
            1.    City-issued STRL and STR special use permit.
            2.    The name and contact information for the 24/7 owner, or a designated representative,
                  contact information.
            3.    Parking requirements, information about the STR’s parking plan, and the City Ordinance on
                  Parking, Chapter 14-7.
            4.    Maximum occupancy of the STR.
            5.    The noise ordinance of this Code. Sandy City Ordinance on Noise Control, Chapter 13-2 and
                  a copy of Salt Lake County Health Department Health Regulation No. 21 Community Noise
                  Pollution Control.



                                                Page 3 of 5
                                                    Exhibit “A”

                  6.    Garbage pickup dates, and a written description of where garbage receptacles must be
                        placed for pickup.
                  7.    Emergency and Non-Emergency contact information for the Sandy City Police and Fire
                        Departments, and the address of the STR dwelling.
                  8.    Other contact information as required by the Community Development Department.
                  9.    Any other appropriate requirements as specified by the Community Development Director,
                        through the special use permit process.
                  8.    Sandy City Ordinance on Residential Short-Term Rentals, Sec. 21-11-26 and Business
                        Licensing for Short-Term Rentals, Chapter 15-11.
            c.    The informational packet shall be made available to the City for inspection upon 24 hours prior
                  written notice.
(d)   Limited Number of STRs Special Use Permits. The total number of STR special use permits issued within
      Sandythe City shall be limited as follows:
      (1)   The maximum number of STR special use permits shall be calculated for each community within Sandy
            City. as follows: Each community shall have a minimum base of two STR special use permits plus one
            STR special use permit for every 100 single-family detached dwellings within the community boundary.
      (2)   The total number of available STR special use permits shall be recalculated biennially every odd year in
            July, based on anthe estimated number of single-family dwellings within Sandythe City derived as
            determined by the Community Development Department.
      (3)   If a complete application meeting that meets all other requirements for approval is received after the
            maximum number of approvals has been issued for the community the proposed STR unit property is
            located within, the application shall be placed on a waiting list in order of the date of receipt of a
            completed application. This list shall be reviewed on an annual basis. No fees will be due until a special
            use approval becomes available. A complete application shall include completion of all requirements of
            Subsection (c) of this sSection.
(e)   Duration of Approval and Transferability. The special use permit shall continue until the sale of the home or if
      the business license expires, the special use shall expire and is not transferable. If the license and permit
      expire, the area used as an STR shall revert to be occupied by the primary dwelling occupants only and their
      non-paying guests. The STR special use permit shall be valid and continue until the sale of the home or the
      STRL expires. The STR special use permit shall expire upon the closing date of the sale of the home or on the
      date the STRL expires. STR special use permits are not transferable. If the STR special use permit expires, the
      STR shall automatically revert to be occupied by the primary dwelling occupants only and their non-paying
      guests.
(f)   Violations. It shall be a violation for any person to operate a STR:
      (1)   Without first obtaining a STR special use permit, as regulated in this sSection, and issued a valid STRL;
            or
      (2)   That does not comply with the requirements of this cChapter, this Code, or the Sandy City Land
            Development Code.
(g)   Enforcement and Fines. Upon a determination that a violation exists, the Community Development Director,
      or designee, shall contact the owner requiring such owner to halt, eradicate, destroy, remove, or otherwise
      cure the violation within 48 hours, or such later time the Director, or designee, may determine.
      (1)   For any violation of this sSection, the issuing officer may issue a written citation or notice of violation
            to the owner, specifying the violation and the penalty to be imposed.




                                                       Page 4 of 5
                                             Exhibit “A”

      a.    Upon a third violation within any 12-month period, in addition to the civil fine, the STRL and STR
            special use permit shall be automatically revoked. The owner shall be ineligible for a STR special
            use permit and a STRL for a period of two years from the date of the third notice of violation.
      b.    For any violation within any 12-month period following the third violation, the penalty shall be a
            civil fine and the owner shall be banned from receiving a STR special use permit and a STRL.
(2)   Fines shall be assessed and accrued pursuant to the current fee schedule and as outlined in Title 1,
      Chapter 4 of this Code.
(3)   Enforcement may be done criminally, civilly, or administratively pursuant to Title 1 Chapter 4 of this
      Code.




                                                Page 5 of 5
                                                   Exhibit “B”

Sec. 21-11-26.Residential Short-Term Rental (STR).
(a)   Purpose. This Section is established to provide regulations and design standards for residential short-term
      rentals (STRs) related to single family and multifamily neighborhoods. These standards seek to allow for STRs
      while also protecting the safety and general welfare of Sandy residents and preserving the residential
      character of Sandy neighborhoods. In allowing STRs, this Section provides existing property homeowners
      economic relief who might otherwise be forced to leave a neighborhood, thus promoting and preserving
      affordable housing in Sandy City. This Section also intends to stabilize neighborhoods by promoting home
      ownership and preserving long term rental housing in the market.
(b)   Residential Short-Term Rental (STR) Special Use Permit and License Required. STRs in all residential dwellings,
      residential districts, residential PUD districts and residential SD districts are required to first obtain a STR
      special use permit as regulated in this Section, and a valid short-term rental business license (STRL), as
      regulated by Chapter 15-11. The following are exempt and shall not be subject to the provisions of this
      Section:
      (1)   A residential lease of 30 or more consecutive days.
      (2)   Bed and breakfasts, hotels, and motels, as described and regulated in the Sandy Land Development
            Code and this Sandy City Code.
(c)   General Standards and Requirements for STR Special Use Permits. A STR may be allowed within any existing
      legal owner-occupied residential dwelling by an administrative STR special use permit and business license
      from the Community Development Department, pursuant to an application that demonstrates compliance
      with requirements found in the Sandy Land Development Code, this Sandy City Code, and all the following
      standards and requirements:
      (1)   Application. A completed STR application, as provided by Sandy City, shall be submitted to the
            Community Development Department. Only the owner, as defined in Section 15-11-1, may apply for an
            STR special use permit. A complete STR application shall include:
            a.    Proof of Ownership. Proof of ownership of the STR property shall be provided. The applicant shall
                  prove ownership of the property as evidenced by a copy of a transfer deed listing the applicant
                  as the fee title owner. Fee title owner may be an individual or trustor of a family trust that
                  possesses 50 percent or more ownership of the proposed STR. The fee title owner may not be a
                  corporation, partnership, limited liability company, or similar entity.
            b.    Conflict of Private Restrictions. The owner shall provide a signed affidavit sworn before a notary
                  public that certifies to the City that the subject property has no existing private covenants,
                  conditions, or restrictions prohibiting STRs.
            c.    Proof of Owner Occupancy. The owner shall show proof that the STR property is the owner's
                  primary residence by submitting all the following documentation:
                  1.    The owner's most recent State and Federal tax returns both listing the property as the
                        owner's primary residence; and
                  2.    A government-issued identification document listing the address of the property as the
                        address of the owner; and
                  3.    A signed affidavit sworn before a notary public shall be provided by the owner stating that
                        the proposed property is the primary residence of the owner, and the owner will remain as
                        the primary occupant of the dwelling for the duration of the STR special use permit,
                        wherein they reside at least 183 days per calendar year.
            d.    Short Term Rental Management Certification. The owner shall show proof of successful
                  completion of a STR management certification, as determined by staff. The owner need only
                  complete one STR management certification to satisfy this requirement.



                                                      Page 1 of 4
                                             Exhibit “B”

      e.    Parking Plan. A detailed written description and drawing of an off-street parking plan shall be
            submitted, in accordance with this Section, to ensure there is sufficient on-site parking capacity
            for all occupants of the home and renters of the STR.
      f.    Compliance Certification. The owner shall provide a signed affidavit sworn before a notary public
            that certifies to the City that the owner agrees to comply with the terms and conditions of this
            ordinance and to ensure each renter complies with the terms and conditions of this ordinance.
      g.    Property Description. A detailed written description, a site plan of the property, and an interior
            layout that identifies the use of each room of the dwelling, location of all smoke and carbon
            monoxide detectors, and defines the portions of the dwelling to be used for a STR shall be
            provided. Only one designated STR area is allowed for a property.
(2)   Owner Occupancy. The owner of the subject property shall live in the primary dwelling in which a STR is
      desired and must reside therein as their primary residence for a minimum of 183 days per calendar
      year.
(3)   Occupancy During Rental Period. The STR shall comply with the following occupancy restrictions:
      a.   The maximum renter occupancy shall be no more than eight people.
      b.   A STR shall not be rented to more than one renter at any given time, and the owner shall not
           divide and rent out portions of the dwelling to multiple renters at the same time.
      c.   The STR property shall only be rented for a minimum duration of one night and a maximum
           duration of 29 consecutive nights.
      d.   There must be a renter vacancy period of one consecutive night between each rental.
      e.    A STR property where the whole dwelling is rented out shall not be rented more than 182 per
            year. A STR property where a portion of the dwelling is rented out may be rented for up to 365
            nights per year. The owner may not reside in or use the STR portion of the dwelling while it is
            occupied by a renter.
(4)   Parking Plan. A detailed written description and a drawing of an off-street parking plan is required to
      ensure there is sufficient on-site parking capacity for all occupants of the home and renters of the STR.
      The parking plan shall be limited to the existing garage, driveway, and dedicated parking spots of the
      residential unit and shall not include any on-street parking. Any proposed parking improvements may
      also be included in the off-street parking plan, so long as they are completed prior to issuance of a
      STRL. All elements of the parking plan must be in compliance with all other requirements of this Title.
      The owner shall ensure that all renters of a STR comply with the Parking Plan.
(5)   Urgent Response. The owner, or a designated representative, shall be available to immediately respond
      to the STR 24 hours per day, 365 days per year by telephone, and when necessary, be able to physically
      respond to the STR within one hour of any legitimate complaint. If the owner is unreachable after three
      attempted contacts by the City, the City shall issue a Notice of Violation will be issued to the owner.
(6)   Property Maintenance Requirements. All STRs shall adhere to this Code, including, but not limited to
      the following:
      a.    Maintenance. The owner must adhere to Title 19, the Property Maintenance Chapter of this
            Code, including, but not limited to, requirements for weed abatement, landscaping, garbage
            removal, structure maintenance, and fence/wall maintenance.
      b.    Snow Removal. The owner shall remove all snow from the sidewalks of the property within 24
            hours after snowfall in accordance with this Code.
      c.    Noise and Nuisance Control. The owner shall ensure that all renters are aware of and adhere to
            Chapter 13-2 the Noise Control Chapter of this Code and Salt Lake County Health Department
            Health Regulation No. 21: Community Noise Pollution Control. If a renter violates the Noise



                                               Page 2 of 4
                                                  Exhibit “B”

                 Control Chapter more than once in any given 72-hour period, the owner shall immediately evict
                 all renters from the property.
            d.   Health and Safety. The owner shall ensure that the dwelling or the rented portion of the dwelling
                 maintains at least one working smoke alarm in each sleeping area and on each floor, and at least
                 one working carbon monoxide detector on each floor.
      (7)   Noticing and Posting Requirements.
            a.   One nameplate sign that includes the name and the 24/7 contact information for the owner, or a
                 designated representative, must be posted on the exterior side of the main entrance of the STR.
            b.   An informational packet must be posted in a highly visible place within the dwelling or the STR
                 area of the dwelling, and must include all the following:
                  1.    City-issued STRL and STR special use permit.
                  2.    The name and contact information for the owner or a designated representative.
                  3.    Parking requirements, information about the STR’s parking plan, and the City Ordinance on
                        Parking, Chapter 14-7.
                  4.    Maximum occupancy of the STR.
                  5.    Sandy City Ordinance on Noise Control, Chapter 13-2 and a copy of Salt Lake County Health
                        Department Health Regulation No. 21 Community Noise Pollution Control.
                  6.    Garbage pickup dates and a written description of where garbage receptacles must be
                        placed for pickup.
                  7.    Emergency and Non-Emergency contact information for the Sandy City Police and Fire
                        Departments, and the address of the STR dwelling.
                  8.    Sandy City Ordinance on Residential Short-Term Rentals, Sec. 21-11-26 and Business
                        Licensing for Short-Term Rentals, Chapter 15-11.
            c.    The informational packet shall be made available to the City for inspection upon 24 hours prior
                  written notice.
(d)   Limited Number of STR Special Use Permits. The total number of STR special use permits issued within the
      City shall be limited as follows:
      (1)   The maximum number of STR special use permits shall be calculated for each community within Sandy
            City as follows: Each community shall have a minimum base of two STR special use permits plus one
            STR special use permit for every 100 single-family detached dwellings within the community boundary.
      (2)   The total number of available STR special use permits shall be recalculated every odd year in July,
            based on the estimated number of single-family dwellings within the City as determined by the
            Community Development Department.
      (3)   If a complete application that meets all other requirements for approval is received after the maximum
            number of approvals has been issued for the community the proposed STR property is located within,
            the application shall be placed on a waiting list in order of the date of receipt of a completed
            application. This list shall be reviewed on an annual basis. No fees will be due until a special use
            approval becomes available. A complete application shall include completion of all requirements of
            this Section.
(e)   Duration of Approval and Transferability. The STR special use permit shall be valid and continue until the sale
      of the home or the STRL expires. The STR special use permit shall expire upon the closing date of the sale of
      the home or on the date the STRL expires. STR special use permits are not transferable. If the STR special use
      permit expires, the STR shall automatically revert to be occupied by the primary dwelling occupants only and
      their non-paying guests.


                                                     Page 3 of 4
                                                    Exhibit “B”

(f)   Violations. It shall be a violation for any person to operate a STR:
      (1)   Without first obtaining a STR special use permit, as regulated in this Section, and issued a valid STRL; or
      (2)   That does not comply with the requirements of this Chapter, this Code, or the Sandy City Land
            Development Code.
(g)   Enforcement and Fines. Upon a determination that a violation exists, the Community Development Director,
      or designee, shall contact the owner requiring such owner to halt, eradicate, destroy, remove, or otherwise
      cure the violation within 48 hours, or such later time the Director, or designee, may determine.
      (1)   For any violation of this Section, the issuing officer may issue a written citation or notice of violation to
            the owner, specifying the violation and the penalty to be imposed.
            a.    Upon a third violation within any 12-month period, in addition to the civil fine, the STRL and STR
                  special use permit shall be automatically revoked. The owner shall be ineligible for a STR special
                  use permit and a STRL for a period of two years from the date of the third notice of violation.
            b.    For any violation within any 12-month period following the third violation, the penalty shall be a
                  civil fine and the owner shall be banned from receiving a STR special use permit and a STRL.
      (2)   Fines shall be assessed and accrued pursuant to the current fee schedule and as outlined in Title 1,
            Chapter 4 of this Code.
      (3)   Enforcement may be done criminally, civilly, or administratively pursuant to Title 1 Chapter 4 of this
            Code.




                                                       Page 4 of 4
                                                                                                                                                         Exhbit "C"

                                                     S ANDY CITY C O M M UN IT Y D E V EL O P ME N T
                                                                                                                                                     JAMES SORENSEN
                                                                                                                                                  COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
                                                                                                                                                        DIRECTOR

                                                                                                                                                       MONICA ZOLTANSKI
                                                                                                                                                           MAYOR

                                                                                                                                                        SHANE E. PACE
                                                                                                                                                    CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE
                                                                                                                                                           OFFICER



                                                                Memorandum

 To:                  Melissa Anderson, Zoning Administrator
 From:                Brian McCuistion, Assistant Community Development Director
 Date:                October 17, 2024
 Subject:             Budgetary Considerations Related to Short Term Rentals


Background
 Councilmember Robinson requested staff to consider Short Term Rental (STR) code amendments, and to respond to the
 following related questions:
 1. Is there a value to re-obtaining short term rental tracking software? If so, what is the cost.
 2. Can we conduct annual reviews of the owner occupancy requirement? If not, what are the alternatives? What additional
    resources would you need to conduct annual reviews?
 3. Is there value in creating educational resources for STR operators in Sandy? If so, what is the feasibility of producing
    these materials/courses/etc.?

STR Tracking Software
 Sandy City adopted the first STR ordinance in 2018. Shortly after that, we hired Bear Cloud Software, an STR tracking
 software company. The cost of this was $25,500 and we only paid for one year of service. The city did not have an
 Administrative Law Judge at the time, and it did not make sense to keep the software.

 Staff have recently talked to two different companies regarding their software services and a cost estimate. The first company
 was Granicus-govService Host Compliance. Their agreement would be for one year with the option to renew for two periods of
 one year each. The quote is attached to this memo with a breakdown of the services provided (address identification,
 compliance monitoring and rental activity reporting). The initial price for the first year is $21,959.00. The second year would
 be $23,496.13 and the third year would be $25,140.86.

 The second company that has given us a quote (attached) is Rentalscape (Deckard Technologies). The annual price is $11,000
 for address identification, compliance monitoring and rental activity reporting. To use this company for an outreach campaign
 (Rentalscape would send out one introductory letter and two additional escalation letters for compliance) there would be an
 additional $3,500. The total price would be nearly $7500 less than the first company.

 Staff recognize the value of purchasing STR tracking software because it is a fundamental tool for comprehensive management
 and effective enforcement of STRs in Sandy. Understanding that at least three quotes are required, if the Council wants to
 move forward with purchasing STR tracking software, staff will continue working on obtaining one more quote for the
 Council’s consideration on funding.

         1 0 0 0 0 C e n t e n n i a l Pa r k w a y | S a n d y , U ta h 8 4 0 7 0 | p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0 | f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8 | s a n d y . u t a h . g ov
                                                                                                                                                       Exhbit "C"

Budgetary Considerations for STRs                                                                                                                                         Page 2


Annual Reviews
  The scope of STR management, administration and enforcement is significant. The maximum number of STR’s that can
  be approved is 329 permits/licenses, spread out amongst 30 community areas within Sandy City. Currently, there are 163
  approved STRs, with six additional applications in the review process and pending approval. Among the various community
  areas in Sandy, there are five communities that are full, and two out of those five communities have a waiting list for STRs.

  Currently, it is standard practice that staff verify the owner’s occupancy at the time of the STR application. Applications are
  initially reviewed in person to verify several standards, including home ownership, and that the home is the applicant’s
  primary residence. There is a considerable amount of staff time spent reviewing STR permit applications and business
  licenses, taking phone calls, answering emails, dealing with opening/closing accounts and dealing with code enforcement
  complaints. Adding the additional verification annually at the time of renewal will likely double the workload for these types
  of applications.

  If the Council decides to conduct annual renewals in person and purchase tracking software, the Community Development
  Department will need an additional FTE to handle the increased workload. Sandy City currently has approximately 5,400
  active business licenses that one FTE processes. The number of staff has not increased since the 1980’s to handle the number
  of business licenses we process each year. Any additional responsibilities increase the burden on the licensing division that is
  already understaffed. Human Resources has given us an estimate of what this additional FTE would cost. With pay and
  benefits this job would be approximately $85,000.

Educational Resources
  There is value in offering educational resources to the property owners who are obtaining a STR special use permit and
  license. This will help ensure that the owners are aware of the regulations and that they comply with city standards. There
  are some communities in the nation that require owners to attend a class or become STR Certified. Some of the potential
  benefits of requiring certification include ensuring legal compliance, which also preserves neighborhood compatibility, and
  increased credibility for potential renters. If the council determines that an educational program should be a requirement,
  staff will work with the council and administration for an appropriate certification procedure.

Attachments: (2)




       1 0 0 0 0 C e n t e n n i a l Pa r k w a y | S a n d y , U ta h 8 4 0 7 0 | p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0 | f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8 | s a n d y . u t a h . g ov
                                                                                              Exhbit "C"


408 St. Peter St, Suite 600                  THIS IS NOT AN INVOICE                                  Order Form
St. Paul, MN 55102                                                                                  Prepared for
                                                                                                   Sandy City, UT



                              Procurement Vehicle: NCPA (01-115)
                                  In Support of: Sandy City, UT

 ORDER DETAILS
 Prepared By:                  Mike Bozich
 Phone:
 Email:                        mike.bozich@granicus.com
 Order #:                      Q-283211
 Prepared On:                  26 May 2023
 Expires On:                   28 Jul 2023




ORDER TERMS
 Currency:                     USD
 Payment Terms:                Net 30 (Payments for subscriptions are due at the beginning of the period of
                               performance.)

 Period of Performance:        This Agreement shall become effective on the date it is awarded and will
                               continue for 12 months. Client will have the option to renew this Agreement
                               for 2 period(s) of 1 year each.




Order #: Q-283211
Prepared: 26 May 2023
                                                                                                      Page 1 of 7
                                                                                             Exhbit "C"

                                                                                                    Order Form
                                                                                                  Sandy City, UT


PRICING SUMMARY
The pricing and terms within this Proposal are specific to the products and volumes contained within this
Proposal.


 One-Time Fees
                                                      Billing
                    Solution                                       Quantity/Unit          One-Time Fee
                                                   Frequency
 Address Identification - Setup and
                                                    Up Front          1 Each                                $0.00
 Configuration
 Address Identification - Online Training           Up Front          1 Each                                $0.00
 24/7 Hotline - Setup and Configuration             Up Front          1 Each                                $0.00
 24/7 Hotline - Online Training                     Up Front          1 Each                                $0.00
 Compliance Monitoring - Setup and
                                                    Up Front          1 Each                                $0.00
 Configuration
 Compliance Monitoring - Online Training            Up Front          1 Each                                $0.00
 Rental Activity Monitoring Lite - Setup and
                                                    Up Front          1 Each                                $0.00
 Configuration
 Rental Activity Monitoring Lite - Online
                                                    Up Front          1 Each                                $0.00
 Training
                                                                       SUBTOTAL:                            $0.00

 New Subscription Fees
                                                      Billing
                    Solution                                       Quantity/Unit            Annual Fee
                                                   Frequency
 Address Identification
                                                    Annual            1 Each                          $9,814.00

 24/7 Hotline
                                                    Annual            1 Each                          $3,925.60

 Compliance Monitoring
                                                    Annual            1 Each                          $4,907.00

 Rental Activity Monitoring Lite
                                                    Annual            1 Each                          $3,312.40

                                                                       SUBTOTAL:                     $21,959.00




Order #: Q-283211
Prepared: 26 May 2023
                                                                                                     Page 2 of 7
                                                           Exhbit "C"

                                                                 Order Form
                                                               Sandy City, UT


FUTURE YEAR PRICING


                                       Period of Performance
                    Solution(s)
                                  Year 2                   Year 3
Address Identification                     $10,500.98               $11,236.05
24/7 Hotline                                $4,200.39                $4,494.42
Compliance Monitoring                       $5,250.49                $5,618.02
Rental Activity Monitoring Lite             $3,544.27                $3,792.37
SUBTOTAL:                                  $23,496.13               $25,140.86




Order #: Q-283211
Prepared: 26 May 2023
                                                                    Page 3 of 7
                                                                                       Exhbit "C"

                                                                                              Order Form
                                                                                            Sandy City, UT

PRODUCT DESCRIPTIONS

            Solution                                       Description

 Address Identification   Ongoing monitoring of 60+ Short Term Rental websites including major
                          platforms Airbnb, VRBO, HomeAway, Booking.com, FlipKey, & Expedia. Our
                          machine learning will deduplicate all known Listings into unique Rental
                          Units, where our identification team will provide owner contact information
                          for further enforcement. This product includes:- Ongoing monitoring of all
                          listings in your jurisdiction
                          - Updating listing activity and details every 3-5 days
                          - Screenshot activity of every listing
                          - Deduplication of listings into unique Rental Units
                          - Activity dashboard and map to monitor trends and breakdown of
                          compliance

 24/7 Hotline             24/7 web and phone hotline for your community to report short term rental
                          complaints such as parking, trash, noise disturbances, and illegal short term
                          rentals. This product include:- Mobile-enabled online web form for citizens
                          to submit tips or complaints (text, videos, and photos)
                          - 24/7 call center for citizens to contact and report complaints verbally
                          - Recordings for all call center complaints
                          - Email notifications to your team when complaints are logged
                          - Automatic outbound IVR calls and SMS messages to permit emergency
                          contacts notifying them of the complaint
                          - SMS support for emergency contacts to mark a complaint as
                          acknowledged or resolved with the ability to send resolution notes
                          - Hotline Dashboard for tracking complaint volumes, trends, and
                          categories
                          - Ability to upload Notes/Comments to each complaint

 Compliance Monitoring    Compliance monitoring provides up-to-date information for each
                          identified Rental Unit and its compliance status. We configure your
                          compliance definition specific to your jurisdiction rules and ordinances in
                          order to provide up-to-date compliance status of each identified Rental
                          Unit. Additionally, this product will:- Allow your team to send letters to non-
                          compliant properties 24/7
                          - Configure letter templates with your branding and letterhead
                          - Add as many letter sequences as you need for escalation
                          - Monitor properties that become compliant after letter enforcement




Order #: Q-283211
Prepared: 26 May 2023
                                                                                               Page 4 of 7
                                                                                                  Exhbit "C"

                                                                                                         Order Form
                                                                                                       Sandy City, UT


             Solution                                                 Description

 Address Identification - Setup      Setup and configuration of the platform to facilitate the systematic
 and Configuration                   identification of the addresses and owner's contact information for short-
                                     term rentals located in a specific local government's jurisdiction.

                                     Note: The implementation timeline for Client is dependent on Granicus'
                                     receipt of all data from Client required to complete the services, including
                                     assessor data and registration files, in the format agreed upon by the
                                     parties prior to project kick-off. Any fees associated with the collection or
                                     receipt of required data will be borne by Client.

 Address Identification - Online     Virtual training session with a Granicus professional services trainer.
 Training



 24/7 Hotline - Setup and            Setup and configuration of the online platform to enable neighbors to
 Configuration                       report, prove and get instant resolution to non-emergency short-term
                                     rental related problems.


 24/7 Hotline - Online Training      Virtual training session with a Granicus professional services trainer.



 Compliance Monitoring - Setup       Setup and configuration of the system to enable ongoing monitoring of a
 and Configuration                   specific jurisdiction's short-term rentals for compliance with the relevant
                                     registration/licensing/permitting requirements.


 Compliance Monitoring -             Virtual training session with a Granicus professional services trainer.
 Online Training



 Rental Activity Monitoring Lite -   Setup and configuration of Rental Activity Monitoring Lite
 Setup and Configuration



 Rental Activity Monitoring Lite -   Virtual training session with a Granicus professional services trainer.
 Online Training




Order #: Q-283211
Prepared: 26 May 2023
                                                                                                          Page 5 of 7
                                                                                                            Exhbit "C"

                                                                                                                    Order Form
                                                                                                                  Sandy City, UT


 TERMS & CONDITIONS
    •   This quote, and all products and services delivered hereunder are governed by the terms located at
        https://granicus.com/legal/licensing, including any product-specific terms included therein (the “License
        Agreement”). If your organization and Granicus has entered into a separate agreement or is utilizing a contract
        vehicle for this transaction, the terms of the License Agreement are incorporated into such separate agreement
        or contract vehicle by reference, with any directly conflicting terms and conditions being resolved in favor of the
        separate agreement or contract vehicle to the extent applicable.
    •   If submitting a Purchase Order, please include the following language: The pricing, terms and conditions of quote
        Q-283211 dated 26 May 2023 are incorporated into this Purchase Order by reference and shall take precedence
        over any terms and conditions included in this Purchase Order.
    •   This quote is exclusive of applicable state, local, and federal taxes, which, if any, will be included in the invoice. It
        is the responsibility of Sandy City, UT to provide applicable exemption certificate(s).
    •   Any lapse in payment may result in suspension of service and will require the payment of a setup fee to reinstate
        the subscription.
    •   The terms and Conditions of the Agreement 01-115 effective 08 DEC 2020 between Granicus and NCPA govern
        this Quote and are incorporated herein by reference, including the Master Agreement and all exhibits thereto.




Order #: Q-283211
Prepared: 26 May 2023
                                                                                                                     Page 6 of 7
                                                                                            Exhbit "C"

                                                                                                   Order Form
                                                                                                 Sandy City, UT


BILLING INFORMATION
 Billing Contact:                                                Purchase Order        [   ] - No
                                                                 Required?             [   ] - Yes
 Billing Address:                                                PO Number:
                                                                 If PO required
 Billing Email:                                                  Billing Phone:


If submitting a Purchase Order, please include the following language:
The pricing, terms, and conditions of quote Q-283211 dated 26 May 2023 are incorporated into this Purchase
Order by reference and shall take precedence over any terms and conditions included in this Purchase Order.



AGREEMENT AND ACCEPTANCE
By signing this document, the undersigned certifies they have authority to enter the agreement. The
undersigned also understands the services and terms.



 Sandy City, UT
 Signature:

                  \s1\

 Name:
                  \n1\
 Title:
                  \t1\
 Date:
                  \d1\




Order #: Q-283211
Prepared: 26 May 2023
                                                                                                      Page 7 of 7
                                           Exhbit "C"



Price proposal
                                                          Dustin Reilich
                                                               VP Sales
                                                         (949) 701-0501
                                                   dustin@deckard.com



FOR


City of Sandy, UT

September 12, 2024




                                                         presented by




                                                        engineered by




                     1620 Fifth Ave • Suite 400 • San Diego, CA 92101
                                                                                                                                                           Exhbit "C"




Table of
contents




Executive summary ................................................................................................................................................. 3

References ............................................................................................................................................................... 5

Proposed products .................................................................................................................................................. 6

Implementation & Training ..................................................................................................................................... 9

Pricing Proposal ...................................................................................................................................................... 10

Optional products ................................................................................................................................................... 13




                                                                                                                                                                               2
                                                                                                    Exhbit "C"




Executive summary
Rentalscape short-term rental ID & monitoring platform
Deckard Technologies utilizes data science expertise to assist local governments with managing their compliance
activity and enforcement, such as short-term rental (STR) properties. Our technology ensures that everyone is held
accountable to play by the same set of rules, follow all guidelines and ordinances, and pay their fair share of fees
and taxes. To accurately track activity within the City of Sandy, the Rentalscape platform identifies the exact
address of the STR listings within the City limits, enabling accurate display of STR activity within the City and within
community districts. Rentalscape groups listings and calculates statistics on a per-property basis. By mapping the
exact location of properties, Rentalscape avoids double-counting activity. Knowing the exact location of STR
properties enables compliance, enforcement, tax collection and complaint management activities.




About Rentalscape
Deckard’s Dashboard management platform for STR will discover, identify, and efficiently present all STR activity in
the City of Sandy, using unique technical capabilities such as its proprietary future booking detection software,
automatic non-compliance recognition, industry-best address identification.

                                                                    Rentalscape is the only platform that shows
                                                                    upcoming rentals and bookings as they occur
                                                                    within 24 hours of the reservation being made.

                                                                    This allows Rentalscape users to reach out to
                      A
                                                                    owners and hosts who are unlawfully renting and
                                               C
                                                                    address any issues relating to these future rentals
            B
                                                                    long before guests arrive, thereby eliminating
                                                                    disturbances, neighbor complaints and other
                                                                    common issues that often arise from illegal
                                                                    rentals.


                                       D                            A   Address


                                                                   B B Sites Monitored

                                                                    C   Bookings, Cost, Occupancy
                                       E
                                                                    D D Host Revenue

                                                                    E   Average Daily Rate
 Figure 1: Rentalscape Property Card                                                                                       3
                                                                                                 Exhbit "C"




Rentalscape maintains a database of every booking
and stay made on all major platforms. Our system
contains information dating back to late 2019 for every
STR in the City of Sandy. All data can be viewed
interactively on the Rentalscape portal with unlimited
user access and downloaded on demand in Microsoft
Excel format.

Rentalscape dashboard map view shows the exact
location of all STR activity, includes districts as defined
by the City and displays individual property information
and aggregate statistics on a per district basis.

Rentalscape presents detailed STR activities including
the precise address, owner information, booking
history, availability and more. For each individual
booking, the platform provides the actual date the
reservation was made as well as the start and end date
of each booking, ensuring that the City is able to
distinguish back-to-back bookings. These insights are
not possible to achieve by simply viewing the listings         Figure 2: Rentalscape Map
itself.




In summary
In every jurisdiction in which we are providing service we have increased compliance and improved tax collection.
Our process starts with producing the cleanest data possible – ensuring reporting is accurate and compliance
levels are carefully monitored. We have in-house property appraisers and STR property managers. We also
regularly consult with City staff to ensure we are always up to date with the latest STR best practices. Our systems
come with unlimited user access and unlimited end-user training. Our customers give testimonials regarding the
ease of use of our systems and vastly superior level of customer service when compared to other providers in the
market.




                                                                                                                       4
                                                                                                        Exhbit "C"




References
We believe that continuous innovation is required to face the challenges of today and of tomorrow. We are proud
of our achievements and solutions that enable cities and counties to manage short-term rental activities and to
ensure local rules and ordinances are enforced for the betterment of local residents.

The following references are examples of successful partnerships between Deckard Technologies & its clients.




    City of Salt Lake City, UT                               Uintah County, UT

    Antonio Padilla                                          Barbara Simper
    Building Services Manager                                County Assessor

    antonio.padilla@slcgov.com                               bsimper@uintah.utah.gov
    801-535-6042                                             (435)781-5323

    Product:                                                 Product:
    R e n t a l sc a p e                                     R e n t a l sc a p e




    City of Hurricane, UT

    Cindy Beteag
    City Recorder

    cindy@cityofhurricane.com
    435-635-2811

    Product:
    R e n t a l sc a p e




    Kane County, UT

    Karla Johnson
    Clerk/Auditor

    clerkkj@kane.utah.gov
    435-644-2458

    Product:
    R e n t a l sc a p e




                                                                                                                     5
                                                                                                     Exhbit "C"




Proposed products



The Rentalscape portal
The Rentalscape portal is a cloud-based system for City staff to track STR properties, monitor STR activity, manage
STR permits and record information about properties. The data in the system is constantly being updated as new
properties are discovered and address identified, as new permit applications are made and as permits are expired
or revoked.

The Rentalscape portal displays information on all STR listings found within the City going back at least 12 months.
We use US Census data to identify City limits and any parcels or listings within the limits are monitored.
Rentalscape also tracks properties outside the City until they are accurately identified. On occasion, the STR listing
estimated location for a property falls outside the City, but the actual location of the property once address
identified is inside the City. Rentalscape displays:

   1.   Any permitted STR property
   2.   Any property with a currently live STR listing
   3.   Any property with historic STR listings
   4.   Any property with a future or past STR booking (even if the property currently does not have a live listing)

Rentalscape includes the ability to filter the properties displayed (e.g., only permitted properties, or only properties
in a specific HOA), and to download all results. All data displayed is available for direct download from Rentalscape.

Information shown in Rentalscape for each property includes:



Property characteristics

   1.   Property address
   2.   Owner name and mailing address
   3.   Ownership type (primary residence, secondary/investment property)
   4.   Property type
   5.   Number of bedrooms and bathroom at the property, per public records data
   6.   A map showing the property’s location
   7.   Maximum occupancy per the City of Sandy ordinance



                                                                                                                           6
                                                                                                    Exhbit "C"




Listing characteristics

   1. Listing URL for each listing associated with each specific property
   2. Listing ad ID for each listing associated with each specific property
   3. Rental calendar showing current month’s activity as well as past twelve months and upcoming three
       months booking activity (calendars update daily)
   4. Rentalscape clearly and easily differentiates between regular bookings and host-blocked dates that are not
       revenue-generating
   5. Host name (when available)
   6. Stay limitations (minimum/maximum)
   7. Permit/license number if included in the listing
   8. Daily Rental rate at time of booking
   9. Rental frequency
   10. Individual links to all active listing for the property
   11. PDF copy of each listing, as well as a history of all previous versions of the listing, to identify any possible
       changes, as well as keep a record in case the listing is taken down by the host. Each image has a date-
       stamp showing when it was created and is kept indefinitely.
   12. Rental type (Whole home, shared home)
   13. Bedrooms and bathrooms advertised
   14. Maximum occupancy, per listing




Estimated sales tax based on rental activity

   15. Occupancy rate
   16. Estimated rental income
   17. Estimated tax


Rentalscape is configured to match the City’s ordinance and is capable of flagging violations following the City’s
exact rules, including but not limited to permit registration and occupancy advertised versus permitted occupancy.
Rentalscape looks for bookings less than 30 days when flagging STRs. When bookings longer than 30 days are
created, these are correctly categorized as long-term rentals and do not cause a property to be treated
as an STR.

Rentalscape actively monitors permit status and STR listings daily, flagging violations as they occur. We have
encountered situations where other providers have flagged properties as “no longer listed” or “only performing
long-term rentals”, that later re-list or take a short-term booking, and are subsequently missed by these other
vendors as violating the City ordinance. Rentalscape continuously monitors every listing every day including
bookings up to a year in advance. As soon as an unpermitted booking is taken, Rentalscape sets a violation.




                                                                                                                          7
                                                                                                 Exhbit "C"




Rentalscape includes a Dashboard that provides an overview of all STR activity in the City. This Dashboard includes
aggregated revenue, bookings, and property data, and highlights top-earning hosts and owners as seen below.
Please note that some charts will not be activated until we go live in the City of Sandy.




Figure 3: Rentalscape the City of Sandy Dashboard Example




                                                                                                                      8
                                                                                              Exhbit "C"




Implementation
& Training



Implementation is on your timeline!! Upon Contract signing, Deckard will assign the City of Sandy a Dedicated
Account Manager, who will work with the City to develop “best practices” based on Deckard’s experiences with
other clients. The account manager will ensure that the implementation process proceeds smoothly and will be the
main point of contact for any questions, suggestions, training, or concerns. The account manager will also
participate in periodic calls with City staff as requested.

And since Rentalscape is Cloud Based, no hardware or software is installed!

Most jurisdictions have been up and running with Rentalscape within a couple weeks with Address Identification
complete within 4 weeks of receipt of the permit and listing data.




Figure 4: Sample Timeline for Rentalscape

                                                                                                                   9
                                                                                                     Exhbit "C"




Pricing Proposal



Currently, Rentalscape is showing close to 736 live STR listings in the City of Sandy. Based on the number of live
STR listings, we estimate there are 350+ short-term rental properties in the City, advertised on one
or more platforms.

While other providers charge a recurring identification fee annually, Deckard Technologies only charges an
identification fee once when the property is initially identified. In addition, we only charge fees on a per property,
not per listing, basis. Since a single property can have multiple listings, we feel it is unfair to charge fees based on
listing count. Finally, we do not charge one fee for compliance monitoring and another for rental activity monitoring
as, in our view, these are the same service.




                                                                                                                           10
                                                                                     Exhbit "C"




 ADDRESS IDENTIFICATION, COMPLIANCE MONITORING & RENTAL ACTIVITY REPORTING                   Price


  • Estimated 350 properties                                                                $11,000
                                                                                           Annually
  • Identify property & address
  • Identify property owner address
  • Real-time reporting of all new listings & daily calendar monitoring
  • 10,000+ Websites monitored Daily, worldwide
  • FutureCast™ - Identify future bookings as they are made on the rental platform
  • Automatic identification of violations

 REPORTING & ANALYSIS


  • On Demand, Dynamic reporting, offering multiple ad hoc reports                      INCLUDED

  • Filters allowing users to focus on specific segments of the STR population

 DEDICATED ACCOUNT MANAGER


  • Single Point of Contact for City staff for all matters                              INCLUDED
  • Ensures the City is following Industry best practices
  • Shepherds the implementation process from start to finish
  • Periodic meetings/calls throughout the life of the account

 UNLIMITED ACCOUNTS & TRAINING SESSIONS


  • No limit on the number of Rentalscape user accounts                                 INCLUDED

  • No per-session training costs

 TOTAL YEAR ONE                                                                           $11,000




Note:           Pricing valid for 90 days
Note 2:         Pricing Confidential.


                                                                                                  11
                                                                                                            Exhbit "C"




Optional Products Pricing

OUTREACH CAMPAIGN


 •   Letter campaign to inform STR owners/hosts about compliance requirements and procedures                              $3,500
                                                                                                            OPTIONAL, but HIGHLY
 •   All letter templates will receive City approval pre-campaign
                                                                                                                 recommended for
 •   Campaign includes one Introductory letter and two additional escalation letters                         Maximum Compliance)


STR REGISTRATION PORTAL

 •   Online, intuitive portal for registration and renewal                                                                $5,000
                                                                                                                      (OPTIONAL)
 •   Fields customizable to meet City needs
 •   Pursue delinquent payments from hosts
 •   Provide daily reports on new and modified permits

COMPLAINT 24/7 HOTLINE & ONLINE FORM

 •   24/7 US based bi-lingual Call Center with live agents – classic (see Page 13 for Detail Information)                 $3,500
                                                                                                                      (OPTIONAL)
 •   Online complaint form (Complaint Form only $2,000)

CONSTITUENT PORTAL

 •   Public facing portal (Link placed on Jurisdiction’s website)                                                         $5,000
                                                                                                                      (OPTIONAL)
 •   Permit Data and Responsible Party contact info for STR Property (Standard)

LONG TERM RENTAL REGISTRATION PORTAL

 •   Increase LTR compliance to best-in-class rates with identification & validation of properties             $10 per registration
                                                                                                                           $2/unit
 •   Enhance outreach and communication with both landlords and renters                                              (OPTIONAL)
 •   Streamline LTR registration with a customizable portal configured to city ordinances




                                                                                                                               12
                                                                                                                        Exhbit "C"




Optional products
STR Registration and Renewal Portal
This is a configurable system that is customized for each client branding, custom fields such as occupancy rules specific to the City (e.g.,
occupancy limits, bedroom counts), collection of documents as required for the STR registration process, STR registration approval portal,
configurable STR permit pricing and expiration, collection of any STR permit fees, regular reporting, allows for renewals and updates.

24/7 Complaint Line & Online Form
Available for fielding complaints raised by the public related to short-term rentals. The Complaint Line is a 24/7 Live US based Call Taker
environment. The Call Taker collects the appropriate information (ie address, property owner, type of incident, date of incident, etc) and
contacts the designated City contact. Hotline services are offered at 3 different levels:

           Basic: Standard call flow. Information is taken                 Classic: Call Center will contact the local contact when information
           and forwarded to the City. Calls are referred to                is available (permitted properties), notify them of the complaint
           the appropriate staff without follow up required.               then forward the information to the local City contact.

           Premier: Premium call flow. Dispatcher will                     Rentalscape Online Complaint Form: is also available. Neighbors
           attempt to get a complaint resolution. The local                can report and provide evidence for non-emergency concerns.
           contact can be contacted up to 3 times before                   The Complaint Form is customized with your logo. All complaints
           referring caller out to appropriate staff.                      are logged and reported to the appropriate staff/department.



Tax Payment Portal
The portal can be utilized to collect taxes from STR operators on a monthly, quarterly, or yearly basis. The Rentalscape Tax Payment system
collects information regarding the number of nights available for booking, and the number of nights booked. The system is customized for
each jurisdiction and includes automatic calculation of tax due based on the City’s tax rate, automatic calculation of late fees and penalties,
and the ability to apply leniency on a per-property basis for late fees should it be required. The Rentalscape Tax Payment system utilizes Stripe
payment processing that allows for payment by credit card or by ACH payments. Payments are directly remitted to the City. The system
generates nightly reports that are delivered to the City, allowing for easy reconciliation of transactions. This system reduces the manual work
required when processing paper forms.

Letter Campaign for STR Hosts
Rentalscape will create and send letters to all Identified STR hosts/owners explaining the City’s STR ordinances, requirements, and process.
The letter templates will be approved by the City staff prior to beginning the mailings. Rentalscape’s targeted letter campaign, timed to
generate best results, have shown great efficacy in cutting the number of unregistered hosts by over 50% within the first six months of a new
client engagement.

STR Constituent Portal
The Constituent Portal is an interactive public online map for publication of all registered short-term rentals within the City. The exact
information on the map can be configured to meet the City’s needs and includes information such as the property owner and emergency
contact information. The portal is branded with the City’s information and can include links to systems such as the short-term rental
registration system.

Foreclosure/Vacant Property Portal
The portal helps government agencies combat blight created by vacant and foreclosed properties! By identifying at risk vacant
properties and contacting the responsible party, Rentalscape helps you carry out enforcement to increase compliance with Vacation Property
Ordinances.

Rentalscape LTR Portal
The portal is a configurable system that enables our customers to have oversight and insight to all LTR properties in their jurisdiction.
Additionally, we give them the ability to run communication and outreach programs for both compliance and awareness. It is the only platform
on the market that offers this combination of registration and communication services.



                                                                                                                                               13
