                                                                                        10000 South Centennial

                                      Sandy City                                        Parkway Suite 231
                                                                                        Sandy, UT 84070

                                     Council Office                                     O| 801-568-7141
                                                                                        Sandy.Utah.Gov




                                            MEMORANDUM

                                            October 22, 2024

To:               City Council Members

CC:               Dustin Fratto, Council Executive Director

From:             Zach Robinson, Council District 3
                  Marci Houseman, Council District 4

Subject:          Proposal to develop Council Budget Priorities for the Fiscal Year 2025-26 Budget



Proposal:
We propose that on December 3, 2024, in lieu of the previously scheduled holiday dinner, the Council
conduct a City Council Budget Priorities Workshop for Fiscal Year 2025-26 (FY26)

Holding this workshop will require a future amendment to the annual meetings schedule reinstating the
December 3, 2024, meeting. While under this proposal we will not hold a holiday dinner that evening,
we will still provide the council and staff in attendance with a standard council meeting dinner. It’s our
desire to hold this workshop before the end of the calendar year and due to agenda limitations, we feel
that reinstating the December 3rd meeting is the best way to accomplish our goal.

Purpose and Outcomes:
The primary purpose of this workshop is to develop a cohesive set of high-level city council budget
priorities for the upcoming FY26 budget. The secondary purpose is to develop a tool that the council
can use to help us evaluate budget requests. The priorities and tool can be used as a lens through which
the council can examine the Tentative Budget and departmental budget requests leading up to the
adoption of the final budget for FY26.

Process:

      1. Tonight, we request that the council answer the following questions and/or approve our
         recommendations:
             a. Approve holding a council budget priorities workshop, as described herein.
             b. Approve December 3rd as the date of the workshop.
             c. Approve conducting the workshop in the multipurpose room (pending availability).
             d. Approve selecting an outside facilitator as described herein.
             e. Decide which “norms” or “rules” should be adopted for the workshop.
      2. Council staff will work with Council Members Houseman and Robinson to select and hire a
         workshop facilitator.
      3. The workshop will be held on the selected date.
            a. Council staff and Council Members Robinson and Houseman will work with the
               facilitator to design a budget priorities exercise that both serves the purposes and
               adheres to the “norms” defined herein.

Suggested date and time for workshop:
We believe in being purposeful throughout this process. We feel that it is important that the council set
aside a meeting date specifically for this workshop. We propose that the December 3rd meeting be
reinstated for this purpose. Should that date be selected, we propose that no other agenda items be
placed on that evening’s agenda. We expect the workshop to last approximately four hours. We suggest
that the council begin a little earlier than normal that evening if possible. Our recommendation is a start
time of 4:30 PM, though that may need to be adjusted to fit the schedule of the facilitator that is
selected.

Suggested location of workshop:
We feel that it is important the workshop be conducted somewhere that allows for both casual
conversation around a conference table as well as moving around as necessary, our suggestion is that
the council sit with a facilitator around a small conference table. For this reason, we propose that the
workshop be held in the multipurpose room at City Hall. In the interest of allowing casual and open
conversation and to allow flexibility for the facilitator, we recommend that the council forego the use of
microphones during the workshop.

Suggested Facilitator:
We propose that an outside facilitator be brought in. We believe that someone with knowledge of local
government who is unaffiliated with the city will allow for the most effective process. We’ve held
conversations with the current city manager of a Utah City who regularly consults with municipalities
around the country on strategic planning and budget prioritization. We would like the council to allow
us to work with Council Staff to hire an outside facilitator.

Workshop “norms” or “rules”:
We believe that prior to the workshop the council should agree upon a series of norms or rules for the
workshop. These can encompass any process that we agree should be followed during the discussion.
We propose the following norms:

    1. The intention of this workshop is for the Council to establish council budget priorities for FY26.
       Both the public and other city officials are welcome and encouraged to attend the workshop. At
       specific and pre-planned times, they may participate in the workshop discussions and freely give
       their advice to the council.
    2. Discussion on priorities should be “high level.” It should focus on budget priority categories,
       themes, and intentions, but not council members’ individual priorities themselves.
    3. When appropriate the facilitator should implement the “Fist to Five Protocol,” as described in
       Exhibit “A” of this memorandum. We believe that utilizing this protocol when selecting our
       council priorities will result in the most accurate depiction of the priorities of the body. It will
       also allow council members to express their opinion on a topic using a gradient as opposed to
       only a yes or a no.
    4. During discussion on each topic, no council member will have the opportunity to speak a second
       time until every other member has had the opportunity to speak once.
  Exhibit “A”


(See next page)
                     Fist to Five Voting and Consensus

        Fist to Five is quality voting. It has the elements of consensus built in and can
prepare groups to transition into consensus if they wish. Most people are accustomed to the
simplicity of "yes" and "no" voting rather than the complex and more community-oriented
consensus method of decision making. Fist to Five introduces the element of the quality of the
"yes." A fist is a “no” and any number of fingers is a “yes,” with an indication of how good a
“yes” it is. This moves a group away from quantity voting to quality voting, which is
considerably more informative. Fist to Five can also be used during consensus decision making
as a way to check the “sense of the group,” or to check the quality of the consensus.

        Fist to Five is accomplished by raising hands as in voting, with the number of
fingers raised that indicates level of agreement.
        • A fist means, “I vote NO." or in consensus it means , "I object and will block
consensus (usually on moral grounds).”
        • 1 finger means, “I’ll just barely go along.” or, “I don’t like this but it's not quite a no."
or, “I think there is lots more work to do on this proposal.” In consensus this indicates standing
aside, or not being in agreement but not blocking the consensus.
        • 2 fingers means “I don’t much like this but I’ll go along.”
        • 3 fingers means, “I’m in the middle somewhere. Like some of it, but not all.”
        • 4 fingers means, “This is fine.”
        • 5 fingers means, “I like this a lot, I think it’s the best possible decision.”

Fist to Five Process:
      1. When a proposal has been brought before a group, it has been well discussed and refined as
needed, a vote for passage is taken.
       2. People raise their hands with the number of fingers that indicate their degree of agreement
with the proposal. Hands are held VERY high and the room is scanned by all. That way everyone is
checking the sense of the room and not individual opinions.
       3. The vote can stand as taken, with all fists and fingers counted, the majority winning. Or,
people with fists and one finger can be asked to speak to their objections and offer possible solutions to
overcome their objections. This is attempted, and then a second and final vote is taken, which is the final
vote.
       4. It is often wise to check early in the proposal dialogue, as sometimes a group is actually ready
for consensus or a vote earlier than expected and a lot of time can be saved. An early check might find all
4 and 5 fingers except for two 1’s, meaning the proposal would be voted in, or in the case of consensus,
no one would block consensus and only two people have needs to be met. Only those people then speak
and their objections addressed which saves a lot of time.
       5. A low quality vote (lots of 1s, 2s and 3s) tells you the decision is probably a stop gap measure
and will need to be watched closely or revisited soon. It is generally wise to attach a date for review to a
decision that is low in quality. Some groups find it saves time in the end to not accept a vote that is
affirmative but primarily 1s and 2s as the proposal is generally troublesome and comes up again anyway.
       6. If it is obvious that the vote is wildly split, with no real majority, despite a winning “yes,” the
group knows it has more work to do, and that the decision may not endure. They can expect more
controversy and know a plan must be made to address the polarized views.
       7. When Fist to Five has been used for a while, a transition to consensus, if desired, is quite easy.
