Council Roles and Responsibilities

  COUNCIL
  MEMBER
 COMMITTEE
ASSIGNMENTS
SUBJECT: Council Member Committee Assignments

BACKGROUND:
Sandy City Council Members serve as representatives on several committees,
boards, and commissions (henceforth referred to as “committees”) both internal
and external to the City itself. It is the role of the City Council Body to select which
of its members be assigned to each of these committees. This policy is intended
to outline procedures that the City Council shall follow in making those
assignments.

POLICY:
  I.    No later than the final regularly scheduled City Council meeting each
        January the Council shall by resolution (henceforth referred to as the
        “assignment resolution”) assign members of the council to serve as its
        representatives on all committees that require a council representative.

   II.    Each committee representative’s term shall begin at the time of 12:00
          AM, the day immediately following the adoption of the assignment
          resolution and shall expire at 11:59 PM the day prior to immediately
          upon the assignment of a new representative as designated by the
          adoption of a new assignment resolution. It’s intended by the Council
          that each representative serve for a term of approximately one year,
          though additional terms and even back-to-back terms may be granted
          by the Council at its sole discretion.

          a. Exceptions:
                i. To better align with the Utah Legislative Session, the Council
                     assigned representatives to the Utah League of Cities and
                     Towns Legislative Policy Committee shall serve for a term
                     beginning at 12:00 AM on July April 1st and expiring
                     immediately upon ending at 11:59 PM the day prior to the
                     assignment effective date of a new representative as
                     designated by the adoption of a new assignment resolution

                ii.   To better align with the operating period for each cohort of
                      the Sandy Youth Council, the representatives to the Youth
                      Council shall serve for a term beginning at 12:00 AM on May
                   1st and expiring immediately upon ending at 11:59 PM the
                   day prior to the assignment effective date of a new
                   representative as designated by the adoption of a new
                   assignment resolution

            iii.   The Salt Lake County Convention Facilities Advisory Board
                   requires representatives to serve a term of three years.
                   Council assignments to this Committee shall should generally
                   align with the bylaws, rules, term lengths, appointment
                   procedures and other regulations prescribed by Salt Lake
                   County and the Salt Lake County Convention Facilities
                   Advisory Board.

III.   Assignment Resolutions: Amongst other necessary information,
       Assignment Resolutions shall include the following:

       a. The name of each committee
       b. A brief description of each committee
       c. Up to date committee meeting date, time, and Location
       d. Up to date contact information for the committee
       e. The names of the Council member(s) being assigned to each
          committee

IV.    Stalemates: A stalemate occurs when four or more council members are
       unable to agree on an individual committee assignment. In the event of
       a stalemate for any individual committee assignment the Council shall
       adhere to the following process:

       a. The Council shall take an initial vote, via written ballot, to fill the
          vacancy from among the names of its members
             i. If no member receives a majority vote of the Council body in
                 the initial vote described in Subsection (IV)(a) the two
                 candidates that received the most votes in the initial vote, as
                 determined by the tie-breaking procedures described herein,
                 shall be placed before the Council body for a second vote, via
                 written ballot, to fill the assignment.
               ii.    If the initial vote results in a tie for second place, the
                      members tied for second place shall be reduced to one by a
                      coin toss conducted in accordance with Subsection (IV)(a)(iv)
                      and the second vote described below shall be between the
                      member that received the most votes in the initial vote and
                      the candidate that wins the coin toss described in this
                      Subsection (IV)(a)(ii).

               iii.   If the initial vote results in a tie among three or more
                      members for first place, the members tied for first place shall
                      be reduced to two by a coin toss conducted in accordance
                      with Subsection (IV)(a)(iv), and the second vote described in
                      Subsection (IV)(a)(i), shall be between the two members that
                      remain after the coin toss described in this Subsection
                      (IV)(a)(iii),

               iv.    A coin toss required under this Subsection (IV)(a)(iv) shall be
                      conducted by a member of the City Council Executive Staff in
                      the presence of the Council at the meeting in which the
                      stalemate has occurred.

         b. If, in the second vote described in Subsection (IV)(a)(i), neither
            member receives a majority vote of the Council, the committee
            assignment shall be determined by a coin toss between the two
            candidates in accordance with Subsection (IV)(a)(iv).

   V.    Sudden Vacancies. If for any reason (no longer in office, resigned, etc.)
         an assigned council member is unable to complete their assignment to
         any committee the Council shall consider amending the Assignment
         Resolution to assign a new member to that committee during a regular
         meeting of the City Council within 30 days following the vacancy.




Date of original adoption:
Dates of amendment:
