                                                                                        10000 South Centennial

                                     Sandy City                                         Parkway Suite 231
                                                                                        Sandy, UT 84070

                                    Council Office                                      O| 801-568-7141
                                                                                        Sandy.Utah.Gov




                                           MEMORANDUM

                                          December 10, 2024

To:              City Council Members

CC:              Dustin Fratto, Council Executive Director
                 James Sorensen, Community Development Director
                 Jake Warner, Long Range Planning Manager

From:            Alison Stroud, Council Member District 2

Subject:         Proposed Amendment to Section 2 of the Draft General Plan



On October 22nd staff presented Section 2: Livability of the Draft Sandy Pace of Progress General Plan to
the Council. Following their presentation, it was clear that topics such as moderate-income housing,
maintaining Sandy neighborhoods, and offering a range of housing options for residents are areas of key
importance. Throughout Section 2, another very important topic is covered, but isn’t outlined in one of
the sections’ goals. That topic is home ownership.

As you are all aware home ownership is a topic that is important to our residents and to our colleagues
at the Capital. During the 2024 Utah Legislative Session, House Bill 572, sponsored by Rep. Robert
Spendlove, passed. HB572 provides financial support for projects where at least 60% of the units cost
less than $450,000. The units’ house deeds must also include a 5-year restriction requiring owner
occupancy and prospective buyers must be informed about the First-time Homebuyers Assistance
Program. This bill really did have a home-ownership focus.

While the State Legislature undoubtedly will take on much of the burden related to improving the
likelihood of home ownership for Utah Residents, I would like the Council to make it abundantly clear
within our general plan that we too intend to encourage and prioritize home ownership within Sandy
City. In addition to the key strategies already covered in the General Plan, I would like to update the
following goal within Section 2, as highlighted below.
Sandy Pace of Progress General Plan Section 2: Livability
Goals, Objectives, Policies, and Actions

GOAL: SANDY INCLUDES A WIDE VARIETY OF HOUSING TYPES APPROPRIATE AND ATTAINABLE
FOR A DIVERSITY OF HOUSEHOLDS

OBJECTIVE Neighborhoods include a mix of housing types to respond to an aging population and
smaller household sizes

POLICIES & ACTIONS

   •   All areas of the city include locations for the development of housing types that meet the needs
       of seniors, new families, young professionals, and students

OBJECTIVE Sandy’s neighborhoods include housing attainable to families and households at all income
levels

POLICIES & ACTIONS

   •   Sandy will continue to implement its Moderate-Income Housing Plan in accordance with
       statutory requirements
   •   Sandy will implement policies that prioritize home ownership across a broad range of
       demographics and income levels

OBJECTIVE External and internal accessory dwelling units are allowed on lots of adequate size and
configuration

POLICIES & ACTIONS

   •   External ADU regulations establish minimum requirements to mitigate impacts on surrounding
       properties including parking, setbacks, and privacy
   •   ADUs are required to be subordinate to the primary structure as measured by building height,
       footprint, and massing
   •   Owner occupancy of one of the units on the property including an ADU is required
