                                                                                             10000 South Centennial

                                           Sandy City                                        Parkway Suite 231
                                                                                             Sandy, UT 84070

                                          Council Office                                     O| 801-568-7141
                                                                                             Sandy.Utah.Gov




                                                 MEMORANDUM

                                                December 17, 2024

 To:                   City Council Members

 CC:                   Dustin Fratto, Council Executive Director
                       James Sorensen, Community Development Director
                       Jake Warner, Long Range Planning Manager

 From:                 Aaron Dekeyzer, Council Member – At Large

 Subject:              Proposed Amendment to Section 4 of the Draft General Plan



 On December 10th staff presented Section 4: Mobility of the Draft Sandy Pace of Progress General Plan
 to the Council.

 Mobility and transportation are integral parts of our General Plan and an aspect of our community that
 is of great interest to our residents. It is essential that we plan for growth both within Sandy City and in
 surrounding communities that will undoubtedly affect our transportation network. While maintaining an
 appropriate level of service amid this growth is a concern, the paramount priority must be increasing the
 safety of all modes of transport.

 As we pursue enhanced multi-modal transportation for our community, I propose we strengthen
 language in the general plan that reinforces our core responsibility to promote the health, safety and
 general welfare of our residents. We have heard consistently from residents about the importance of
 safe streets, sidewalks, crossings, bike paths and trails. Enhancing the safety of our transportation
 network will include a variety of approaches, best practices and funding sources. I am proposing to
 include language in the General Plan that shows our intention to pursue these outcomes.

Sandy Pace of Progress General Plan Section 4: Mobility
 Goals, Objectives, Policies, and Actions

 GOAL: ENSURE THAT SANDY’S TRANSPORTATION NETWORKS PROVIDE SAFE, COMFORTABLE
 TRANSPORTATION OPTIONS REGARDLESS OF MODE CHOICE.

 OBJECTIVE: Sandy continues to lead regional strategies in addressing transportation safety and other
 transportation related issues

   •     Policies
             o      Enhance traffic safety for all transportation modes while improving mobility
             o      Continue to serve on regional committees to ensure regional growth impacts on Sandy are
                    adequately addressed and collaboration on best practices regarding traffic safety benefit Sandy
                    City

                    Section 8, Implementation Plan, will be modified to reflect these changes.
              PROPOSED CHANGES TO CHAPTERS 4.1 & 8.0



1. Dekeyzer amendment
