                                                      S ANDY CITY C O M M UN IT Y D E V EL O P ME N T
                                                                                                                                                      JAMES SORENSEN
                                                                                                                                                   COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
                                                                                                                                                         DIRECTOR

                                                                                                                                                        MONICA ZOLTANSKI
                                                                                                                                                            MAYOR

                                                                                                                                                        SHANE E. PACE
                                                                                                                                                     CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE
                                                                                                                                                            OFFICER




                                            Staff Report Memorandum
                                                                       May 16, 2024


 To:                   City Council via Planning Commission
 From:                 Community Development Department
 Subject:              Amendments to Title 21 of the Land Development Code                                                                 CA04262024-0006760
                       related to Rear Setback Exceptions


 Public Hearing Notice: This item has been noticed on public websites, sent to affected entities and
                                                 posted in three public locations at least 10 days prior to the Public Hearing.


Request
 On behalf of Sandy City, the Community Development Department is proposing to amend Title 21, Land Development
 Code, Chapter 37, Definitions, Section 20, "S" Definitions. The code amendments will bring the residential rear setback
 standards for uncovered landings, uncovered walkout porches, and window wells in line with the Utah Code. The specific
 amendments to the Land Development Code are included as Exhibit “A” (red-lined version) and Exhibit “B” (clean version).

Background
 During the 2024 Utah Legislative Session, House Bill 476 was passed, which enacted language relating to residential rear
 setback exceptions for uncovered landings, uncovered walkout porches, and window wells (UCA 10-9a-538, Residential
 Rear Setback Limitations). The proposed code amendment will bring the City’s land use code under Sec. 21-34-20(21) into
 compliance with these new state law provisions.

Public Notice
 The city issued notice of the public hearing for the proposed code amendments on public websites, mailed notice to affected
 entities and posted in three public locations at least 10 days prior to the Planning Commission public hearing in accordance
 with the Land Development Code Sec. 21-36-1 and the Utah State Code § 10-9a-205.

Analysis
 The term “Setback” is defined as the shortest distance between the property line and the building, and it identifies specific
 exceptions that are allowed within a particular setback (Sec. 21-37-20(21)). To implement the new state law, the definition
 of setback is proposed to be amended to allow residential rear setback exceptions for uncovered landings, uncovered walkout
 porches, and window wells, consistent with House Bill 476. The specific language of the proposed code amendment is
 shown under Exhibit “A” (red-lined version) and Exhibit “B” (clean version).


   1 0 0 0 0 C e n t e n n i a l Pa r k w a y   | S a n d y, U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   |   p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   |   f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8    |   s a n d y . u t a h . g ov
Amendments Related to Rear Setback Exceptions – CA04262024-0006760                                                                                                        Page 2

Non-Conforming Uses
 This code amendment would not create any non-conforming situations.

Land Development Code Purpose Compliance
 The Sandy City Land Development Code in 21-1-3 lists the criteria explaining the intent and purpose of the Ordinance.
 The purpose is:
       21-1-3 Purpose
       This Code is adopted to implement Sandy City’s General Plan and to promote public health, safety, convenience,
       aesthetics, welfare; efficient use of land; sustainable land use and building practices; transportation options and
       accessibility; crime prevention; timely citizen involvement in land use decision making; and efficiency in development
       review and land use administration. Specifically, this Code is established to promote the following purposes:
       1. General
          a. To facilitate the orderly growth and development of Sandy City.
          b. To facilitate adequate provision for transportation, water, sewage, schools, parks, and other public
             requirements.
          c. To stabilize property values.
          d. To enhance the economic well-being of Sandy City and its inhabitants.
       2. Implementation of General Plan
          To coordinate and ensure the implementation of the City’s General Plan through effective execution of
          development review requirements, adequate facility and services review and other goals, policies, or programs
          contained in the General Plan.
       3. Comprehensive, Consistent and Equitable Regulations
          To establish a system of fair, comprehensive, consistent and equitable regulations, standards and procedures for
          review and approval of all proposed land development within the City.
       4. Efficiently and Effectively Managed Procedures
          a. To promote fair procedures that are efficient and effective in terms of time and expense.
          b. To be effective and responsive in terms of the allocation of authority and delegation of powers and duties
               among ministerial, appointed, and elected officials.
          c. To foster a positive customer service attitude and to respect the rights of all applicants and affected citizens.

 The proposed code amendment is consistent with the purpose of the Land Development Code because the proposal
 promotes the public health, safety and welfare; ensures consistency and equitable standards; establishes fair procedures that
 are efficient and effective in terms of time and expense; facilitates the orderly growth and development of Sandy City; and
 is consistent with the Sandy City General Plan.

General Plan Compliance
 The Sandy City General Plan encourages appropriate development standards for all uses and zoning categories within the
 city. The proposed code amendment furthers that goal and objective by establishing appropriate land development standards
 for all uses and zoning categories within Sandy City.

Recommendation
 Staff recommends that the Planning Commission forward a positive recommendation to the City Council to amend Title
 21, of the Sandy Municipal Code, relating to rear setback exceptions as shown in Exhibit “A”, based on the following
 findings:

Findings:
      1 0 0 0 0 C e n t e n n i a l Pa r k w a y   | S a n d y, U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   |   p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   |   f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   |   s a n d y . u t a h . g ov
Amendments Related to Rear Setback Exceptions – CA04262024-0006760                                                                                                        Page 3

   1. The City Council may amend land use ordinances consistent with the purposes of the Sandy Land Development
      Code, the Sandy City General Plan, and the Utah Code, Municipal Land Use, Development, and Management Act
      per Title 21 Chapter 5 of the Sandy Municipal Code.
   2. The proposal is reviewed by the Planning Commission and City Council in accordance with the requirements of Title
      21 Chapter 5 of the Sandy Municipal Code.
   3. The proposal complies with the purpose of the Land Development Code under Section 21-1-03 by promoting the
      public health, safety, and welfare; ensuring consistent and equitable standards; establishing fair procedures that are
      efficient and effective in terms of time and expense; and by facilitating the orderly growth and development of Sandy
      City.
   4. The proposal complies with the Goals and Policies of the General Plan by establishing appropriate development
      standards for all uses and zoning categories within Sandy City.

 Planner:




 Melissa Anderson
 Zoning Administrator

 Exhibits:
    A. Proposed code amendments (red-lined version)
    B. Proposed code amendments (clean version)


 File Name: S:\USERS\PLN\STAFFRPT\2024\CA04262024-0006760 - HB476 LANDING SETBACK EXCEPTION\STAFF REPORT\STAFF REPORT - REAR
 SETBACK EXCEPTIONS.FINAL.DOCX




      1 0 0 0 0 C e n t e n n i a l Pa r k w a y   | S a n d y, U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   |   p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   |   f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   |   s a n d y . u t a h . g ov
                                                    Exhibit “A”



Sec. 21-37-20. "S" Definitions.
…
(21) Setback. The setback for all structures is the shortest distance between the property line and the building or
     any portion thereof excluding the following:
     a.    Window awnings and unenclosed front entry and steps not protruding more than five feet into the
           setback area.
     b.    Uncovered patios.
     c.    Decks and balconies not greater than two feet in height from grade, and not less than four feet from
           the rear property line and eight feet from the side property line.
     d.    Decks and balconies not greater than eight feet above grade and not less than ten feet from the rear
           lot line.
     e.    Chimney and roof overhangs protruding no greater than two feet into the setback area.
     f.    Uncovered above-ground landing (platform) that is with or without stairs or an uncovered ground level
           walkout porch, that is within the rear setback and meets all the following standards:
           1.    Landing or porch area is no more than 32 square feet in size;
           2.    Stairs from a landing to the finished grade shall be allowed provided that the stairs extend no
                 closer to the rear property line than the extent of the landing;
           3.    Connected to the rear of a residential dwelling; and
           4.    Used for ingress to and egress from the rear of a residential dwelling;
     g.    Window wells within the rear setback that allow for emergency ingress to and egress from the rear of a
           residential dwelling through a window to a basement that is fully or partially below ground.




                                                     Page 1 of 1
                                                    Exhibit “B”



Sec. 21-37-20. "S" Definitions.
…
(21) Setback. The setback for all structures is the shortest distance between the property line and the building or
     any portion thereof excluding the following:
     a.    Window awnings and unenclosed front entry and steps not protruding more than five feet into the
           setback area.
     b.    Uncovered patios.
     c.    Decks and balconies not greater than two feet in height from grade, and not less than four feet from
           the rear property line and eight feet from the side property line.
     d.    Decks and balconies not greater than eight feet above grade and not less than ten feet from the rear
           lot line.
     e.    Chimney and roof overhangs protruding no greater than two feet into the setback area.
     f.    Uncovered above-ground landing (platform) that is with or without stairs or an uncovered ground level
           walkout porch, that is within the rear setback and meets all the following standards:
           1.    Landing or porch area is no more than 32 square feet in size;
           2.    Stairs from a landing to the finished grade shall be allowed provided that the stairs extend no
                 closer to the rear property line than the extent of the landing;
           3.    Connected to the rear of a residential dwelling; and
           4.    Used for ingress to and egress from the rear of a residential dwelling;
     g.    Window wells within the rear setback that allow for emergency ingress to and egress from the rear of a
           residential dwelling through a window to a basement that is fully or partially below ground.




                                                     Page 1 of 1
