Policies and Procedures for Participation in Events by City
Officials
The following policy is enacted to promote the fair and proper use of invitations, tickets, seats,
tables, or other opportunities (henceforth referred to as “invitations”) received by the City through
agreements, purchases or gratuitously provided by an outside source. The following guidelines are
meant to comply with the City Council’s ordinance on Equitable Participation in Events.

This policy does not eliminate the obligation to comply with the Utah State Municipal Officers and
Employees Ethics Act, where applicable.

This policy will ensure that any invitations to attend and/or participate in any event whether by
invite, advanced agreement, or contract be divided equally between the executive and legislative
branches of Sandy City Government.

When any contract is executed by the city that includes invitations or when either branch receives
an advanced invitation to participate in an event as a representative of Sandy City, the invitee will
contact the other branch as soon as is reasonably practicable and make them aware of said event.
The Mayor’s Executive Assistant shall be the appropriate person for the executive branch and the
City Council Office Manager and Events Coordinator shall be the appropriate contact person for
the legislative branch.

In accordance with Title 3-1-9 of the Sandy Municipal Code, any contract or other written
agreement that includes participation of city officers in events shall henceforth require equal
division of all invitations between the executive and the legislative branches of Sandy City
Government as described herein.
I.     Applicability

A. This Section governs the distribution of complimentary tickets [including administrative
   passes] received by the City that are either:

       1. Gratuitously provided to the city by an outside source

       2. Acquired by the City as consideration pursuant to the terms of a contract for the
          use of a city venue.

       3. Acquired and distributed by the city in any other manner.

B. This Policy does not apply to:


       1. Any other item of value provided to the city or any City Official, regardless of
          whether received gratuitously or for which consideration is provided.

       2. A ticket received by a City Official from the City where both the City Official and the
          City treat and report the value of the ticket as income consistent with applicable
          state and federal income tax laws and the ticket is reported as income pursuant to
          the provisions of this Policy.

       3. Non-complimentary tickets that are purchased by the City at market value.

       4. Administrative passes that are granted to an officer of the City allowing them to
          monitor events held at Sandy City owned facilities

II. Process for the division of invitations between the executive and the legislative branches
    of Sandy Government:

A. At least once per calendar year the Deputy Mayor (or their designee) and the City Council
   Executive Director (or their designee), shall meet to identify and equally divide invitations,
   tickets, events, and other opportunities between the executive and legislative branches.

       1. When there are an odd number of invitations to a single event that cannot be
          divided equally, the extra invitation(s) shall be allocated to the executive branch
          during even numbered calendar years and too the legislative branch during odd
          numbered calendar years.

B. The executive and legislative branches may use and distribute their portion of invitations as
   each branch deems appropriate, so long as each branch complies with all requirements of
   this policy.
III. The following guidelines shall apply when the Executive and Legislative Branches
     distribute tickets to city guests:

A. Guidelines for Distinguishing Recipients:

       1. Complimentary tickets may be distributed to city guests by the executive or
          legislative branches from their allotment of invitations for the purposes
          described herein.
       2. Complimentary tickets shall not be issued in lieu of or as a supplement to
          compensation.
       3. One guest may be provided complimentary tickets to events upon the
          authorization of the Mayor or Council.

B. General Provisions:

       1. No Right to complimentary tickets: The use of complimentary tickets is a
          privilege extended by the City to City Guests and not the right of any person to
          which the privilege may from time to time be extended.

       2. Limitation on Transfer of Tickets: Tickets distributed to a City Official pursuant to
          this Policy shall not be transferred to any other person, except a city guest, and
          solely for their personal use.

       3. Prohibition Against Sale of or Receiving Reimbursement for Tickets: No City
          Official nor City Guest who receives a ticket pursuant to this policy shall sell or
          receive reimbursement for the value of such ticket.

C. The City Official may use, or behest, such ticket(s) for one or more of the following
   public purposes:

       1. Performance of a ceremonial role or function representing the city at the event,
          for which the City Official may receive enough tickets for the City Official and
          each member of his or her immediate family.
       2. Economic or business development purposes on behalf of the city.
       3. Intergovernmental relations purposes, including but not limited to attendance at
          an event with or by elected or appointed public officials from other jurisdictions,
          their staff members, and their guests.
       4. Attracting or rewarding volunteer public service.
       5. Supporting and/or showing appreciation for programs or services rendered by
          non-profit organizations benefiting Sandy residents.
       6. Encouraging or rewarding significant academic, athletic, or public service
          achievements by Sandy students, residents, or businesses.
       7. Attracting and retaining highly qualified employees in City service, for which such
          employee may receive no more than one ticket for themselves and one guest
          ticket per event.
       8. The job duties of the City Official require his or her attendance at the event, for
          which the City Official may receive no more than one ticket for themselves and
          one guest ticket per event.
9. As special recognition or reward for meritorious service by a city employee, for
    which such employee may receive no more than one ticket for themselves and
    one guest ticket per event.
10. For use in connection with a City employee competition or drawing, for which
    there shall be made available no more than one ticket for themselves and one
    guest ticket per event.
11. Recognition of contributions made to the city by former City Council Members,
    Mayors, or City Executive Staff, for which such former City Council Member,
    Mayors or Executive Staff may receive no more than one ticket for themselves
    and one guest ticket per event.
