                                                                               10000 South Centennial

                                 Sandy City                                    Parkway Suite 231
                                                                               Sandy, UT 84070

                                Council Office                                 O| 801-568-7141
                                                                               Sandy.Utah.Gov



                                       Memorandum

                                        June 17, 2025

To:            City Council Members

Cc:            Dustin Fratto, Council Office Executive Director
               Brian Kelley, Administrative Services Director

From:          Council Member Aaron Dekeyzer

Subject:       Council Member Dekeyzer Proposed Amendment to the FY26 Tentative Budget -
               Investing in Community Belonging and Quality of Life through Public Art


Proposal Summary
This amendment proposes:
    1. Community Art Seed funding in the amount of $25,000 to begin a Utility Box Art
       Program.

Existing Proposals to Amend the FY26 Tentative Budget
Prior to hearing the budget proposal presentations on June 10th from Council Members
Houseman, Robinson, and Stroud I had also considered proposing similar amendments related
to hazardous concrete, an additional animal services position, and funding council meetings.
However, as those proposals have already been made, I’m not including them in my proposal.
Instead, this proposal will focus on an area that hasn’t been addressed, public art.

What is Public Art?
Public Art is a broad term used to encapsulate any form of art or expression that occurs in a
public space. Depending on the city or location, you can find public art on buildings, in parks
and plazas, on government infrastructure, within transit stations, or even outside private
development. Public Art can take many forms, but is more commonly recognized as murals,
monuments, statues, digital or light-based pieces, or temporary performances/ exhibits.
Wherever the location and whatever the form, Public Art is accessible to everyone and exists to
enhance community spaces and foster a sense of place and belonging.

Why should Sandy invest in Public Art?
Sandy City’s vision statement establishes a commitment to “connecting an active, vibrant, and
prosperous community, where people flourish, and you belong.” The connection is clear—
public art enhances the vibrancy of our city, deepens our sense of community, and fosters
neighborhood pride. Urban designer Mitchell Reardon describes public art as “community
                                                                                   10000 South Centennial

                                    Sandy City                                     Parkway Suite 231
                                                                                   Sandy, UT 84070

                                   Council Office                                  O| 801-568-7141
                                                                                   Sandy.Utah.Gov

fingerprints,” noting that it can help develop or shape distinct identities for cities and the
people who live in them.

Beyond the City vision, investing in public art also connects with the Council’s budget priorities
for this fiscal year.

Quality of Life— Our commitment to quality of life is correlated with culture, personal well-
being of our residents, in investments that result in vibrant spaces. By investing in public art, we
beautify neighborhoods, encourage community engagement, and support cultural expression.
By enhancing a sense of place, public art improves mental well-being of residents, and activates
parks, streets, and gathering spaces, making them livelier and more inviting for all. A key
component to quality of life is ensuring our residents feel connected to a culture and
community, and public art can help us achieve this.

Community Safety— By activating public spaces, public art naturally increases community
safety by transforming neglected or underused areas and increasing foot traffic in certain areas
of our city. By promoting vibrant, well-used spaces, public art also builds community pride and
ownership, which has been shown to reduce crime and vandalism, and improve feelings of
security.

Economic Development — Americans for the Arts released an Arts & Economic Prosperity study
in 2017 that found 68% of tourism in the U.S. is driven by cultural, historical, and artistic
experiences. When cultural tourists visit new areas, they are shown to spend nearly twice as
much while traveling as other tourists do, driving economic development and stimulating local
economies.

By strategically locating pieces in commercial areas, public art can drive foot traffic to support
local business and attract new business and companies to what are visibly marketable spaces.
Public art can signal to residents, tourists, and businesses that Sandy is a vibrant, forward-
thinking city with a high dedication to both commerce and culture.

Fiscal Health— While investing in something new may seem like an additional burden in a year
of strategic spending, public art can demonstrate a visible return on investment through
beautified infrastructure and strengthened tourism and local spending. A dedication to public
art can also leverage outside funding, as there are many state and federal grants or
partnerships available for public art initiatives.


Upgrading our City Utility Boxes

While this is a small step towards investing in public art in Sandy, I am proposing that Sandy City
invest in through a city-wide utility box art project. Salt Lake City completed a similar initiative
                                                                                                      10000 South Centennial

                                              Sandy City                                              Parkway Suite 231
                                                                                                      Sandy, UT 84070

                                             Council Office                                           O| 801-568-7141
                                                                                                      Sandy.Utah.Gov

in 2019, called “ColorSLC,” where 28 utility boxes were wrapped with pieces of art created by
students at each of the 28 elementary schools in the Salt Lake City School District. My proposal
is similar—to commission local artists or work with community groups such as the Senior
Center, Youth Council, community volunteer groups, or students at our local schools to create
art, unique to their interpretation and perspectives, to be placed on Sandy City Utility Boxes.

By transforming often overlooked infrastructure into visual assets, this project will boost
neighborhood appeal, support local economic vitality, and create a passive safety feature.
Utility box art is a smart, low-cost initiatives with measurable benefits and a high return on
investment.

While I don’t intend to specify exactly how this program should be implemented nor
administered, I would like to appropriate initial seed funding. Depending on how the program is
administered, I expect that each utility box to cost somewhere between $500 – 3,000 to wrap
or decorate. Additionally, there may be other start up costs that need to be considered. In
conclusion, I request the council to consider my proposed amendment to the FY26 Tentative
Budget (Exhibit A). I hope that this seed funding is only the beginning and that we as a council
continuously fund public art projects, such as this one, in the future.



Exhibit A                                     Amount          Detail                                          Balance
Ongoing:
Special Programs (Utility Box Art Program)     $   25,000 Dept 1900 - 412470 - [new project] (Non-Departmental) $ 25,000
Total Ongoing Appropriations Increase          $   25,000


Citizen Scholarship                            $    (4,000) Dept 1900 - 412470 - 91108 (Non-Departmental)     $   2,500
Central Wasatch Commission                     $   (21,000) Dept 1900 - 412470 - 91004 (Non-Departmental)     $ 16,500
Total Ongoing Appropriations Decrease          $   (25,000)
