                                        S ANDY C I T Y C O M M U N I T Y D E V E L O P M E N T
                                                                                                                                        JAMES SORENSEN
                                                                                                                                     COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
                                                                                                                                           DIRECTOR

                                                                                                                                          MONICA ZOLTANSKI
                                                                                                                                              MAYOR

                                                                                                                                        SHANE E. PACE
                                                                                                                                CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER




                                 Staff Report Memorandum
                                                         June 19, 2025


 To:             Planning Commission
 From:           Community Development Department
 Subject:        Swig State Street (Cairns Preliminary Site Plan Review &                                                       SPR01062025-006903
                 Restaurant Drive-up Window Use Conditional Use Review)                                                        CUP03192025-006930
                                                                                                                                            CBD Zone
                 10101 S. State St.                                                                                                     Cairns District
                 [Community #5]                                                                                           0.67 Acres, 749 sq. ft. Retail


 Public Meeting Notice: This item has been noticed to property owners within 500 feet of the subject
                                   area, on public websites, and at public locations.



Request
 The applicant, Pranavi Koka with Bowman Consulting Group that
 represents Savory Swig Stores, LLC (with permission of the property
 owner, Fairbanks Family Trust), is requesting preliminary site plan
 review of a commercial site plan within the Cairns District for a
 SWIG (restaurant land use) on a property located at 10101 S. State St.
 The proposal is to construct a single-story use building for this
 proposed use and to include a double lane restaurant drive-up
 window (see Exhibit “A” for application materials).

Background
 The property is zoned Central Business District (CBD) and is part of
 the East Village of the Cairns Master Plan and is subject to the Cairns
 Design Standards. The land has a home that was converted to
 commercial use but is presently vacant. The property is bordered by
 the Memorial Lake Hills Mortuary and Cemetery to the north and
 east that are zoned Mixed Use (MU). To the south is the Sonic Drive-
 In Restaurant and to the west is the Marketplace Retail Center which
 are also zoned Central Business District (CBD).


Public Notice and Outreach
 This item has been noticed to property owners within 500 feet of the
 subject area. A neighborhood meeting has been held as this property

   10000 Centennial P arkway      | S a n d y, U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   |   p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   |   f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8    |   s a n d y . u t a h . g ov
Swig State Street (Cairns Preliminary Site Plan Review) – SPR01062025 - 006903                                                                                  Page 2


 is within close proximity to residential properties. The meeting was
 attended with one neighbor, but no comments were provided.

Analysis
 Important design issues or considerations on this proposed
 development in the CBD Zone & Cairns Design Standards that will
 need to be reviewed by the Planning Commission include type of uses,
 design priority (pedestrian/vehicular/shared), traffic calming, building
 frontages, building massing, building heights, lot coverage, building
 design and materials, building articulation, street level building entries,
 setbacks, public realm furnishings, and streetscape profiles.

 Land Use
 This property is shown as being part of the East Village within the Cairns District. This village is intended to become a
 walkable mixed use area in which residents may walk to work, shopping and recreational facilities. While this single building
 alone won’t accomplish this goal, the implementation of the overall master plan for the East Village will over time. While
                                                                         this proposal does not maximize the development
                                                                         potential available in the Cairns by proposing a
                                                                         small single story retail building in an area that
                                                                         requires a minimum building massing of four
                                                                         stories and proposes to have an auto dominated
                                                                         use with a drive thru pick-up window the building
                                                                         orientation and configuration of the site strike a
                                                                         balance between the vehicular use and pedestrian
                                                                         use. Despite the proposed user of this site
                                                                         primarily catering to automobiles through the
                                                                         proposed drive thru window and double stacked
                                                                         queue lanes, they have implemented a design that
                                                                         balances vehicular and pedestrian traffic yet still
                                                                         encourages and promotes walkability in the area.
                                                                         This project does satisfy needs of today and also
                                                                         helps further the objective of the area to
                                                                         transition into a walkable mixed used
                                                                         development. The drive thru use does require a
                                                                         conditional use permit in the CBD Zone District.

                                                                               Conditional Use Standards
                                                                               The City may impose conditions on a conditional
 use based on certain standards of review found in section 21-33-04 of the Sandy City Land Development Code. The
 following items from that list are applicable to this particular request and merit discussion or additional consideration by the
 Planning Commission (staff analysis is found below in italics):

Sec. 21-33-4. Conditions.
     In order to achieve compliance with the standards set forth herein, the City may impose conditions that address:
     (1)    Size, configuration and location of the site and the proposed site plan layout.
 The proposed drive thru lanes are placed behind the building which is oriented to the street, not a parking lot or drive isles. These design choices
 mitigate the visual impact of the drive thru queue.
     (2)    Proposed site ingress and egress to existing and proposed roads and streets.
 The site is limited to one-way ingress (from Creek Run Way (10200 S), and one-way egress onto State St.

       10000 Centennial P arkway            | S a n d y, U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   |   p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   |   f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   |   s a n d y . u t a h . g ov
Swig State Street (Cairns Preliminary Site Plan Review) – SPR01062025 - 006903                                                                                   Page 3


     (3)    The adequacy, provision, relocation, or protection of public facilities and amenities, including roads and streets, culinary
            water, secondary water, sanitary sewer, storm drainage, public safety and fire protections, and other utilities.
 The site has sufficient access to the streets, will not have adverse impact on the utilities, and will provide sufficient public improvements to offset
 any negative impacts.
     (4)    Design, location and amount of off-street parking, loading areas and solid waste disposal and collection areas.
 The proposed site plan has sufficient parking that is placed behind the building.
     (5)    Site circulation patterns for vehicular, pedestrian and other traffic.
 The site is limited to one-way ingress (from Creek Run Way (10200 S), and one-way egress onto State St.
     (7)    The location and design of all site features, including proposed signage, lighting, and refuse collection.
 The proposed signage for the drive thru is oriented away from the residential areas and should not create a disturbance to surrounding properties.
     (8)    The provision of useable open space, public features, and recreational amenities.
 The proposal includes a reservation of a public easement that would allow for a future pedestrian bridge over State Street.
     (9)    Fencing, screening and landscape treatments, and other features designed to increase the attractiveness and safety of
            the site and protect adjoining property owners from noise, visual, and other impacts.
 The site will have adequate landscape areas that will help screen the drive-thru lanes.
     (13) Identifying a time for regular review and monitoring, as determined necessary, to ensure the use continues to operate in
          compliance with all conditions and requirements of approval.
 The use to be reviewed upon legitimate complaint.
     (15) Such other conditions determined reasonable and necessary by the City to allow the operation of the proposed
          conditional use, at the proposed location in compliance with the requirements of this title.
 The proposed drive-thru use is allowed along a Type 4 street in the Cairns District, when the impacts and the use can be
 limited. The proposed site layout does a sufficient effort to mitigate the negative impacts typically associated with this use.

 Access:
 The proposed development will have vehicular accessed from Creek Run Way (10200 South). Pedestrian access will be
 provided from State Street. Road width’s will remain as-is, but the development will provide improvements of parkstrips,
 sidewalks, and urban furnishings that will improve pedestrian mobility and comfort to the area. The building will be primarily
 oriented to the street and designed to encourage pedestrian activity through a walk-up window and outdoor dining area.
 The proposed public improvements are designed to implement the Cairns Design Standards.

 Parking:
 No on-street parking is proposed, and all off-street parking requirements will be met through a parking lot. A total of eight
 (8) parking stalls will be provided, which is sufficient for the use and building size.

                                          Architectural Design & Materials:
                                          The applicant is proposing to use two different brick veneers as the primary building
                                          materials. The base of the building is expressed with a brick wainscotting. The middle of
                                          the building is shown in a different white brick used on the middle and building column
                                          elements. The top of the building is reflected in an EIFS cornice. They’ve also created a
                                          canopy/ledge that wraps around the building at varying widths. The exact percentages are
                                          shown on the plans. The architect has not clearly defined how they attempt to achieve a
                                          “mountain meets urban” design ethos with the mix and placement of materials and forms
                                          consistent with Cairns Master Plan and Cairns Design Standards.



       10000 Centennial P arkway             | S a n d y, U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   |   p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   |   f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   |   s a n d y . u t a h . g ov
Swig State Street (Cairns Preliminary Site Plan Review) – SPR01062025 - 006903                                                                             Page 4


 The exterior elevations and materials have been reviewed by the Architectural Review Committee (ARC) (see Exhibit “B”
 ARC Meeting Minutes). The applicant presented a couple variations of the building form and design and ultimately received
 a positive recommendation from the committee. The final motion included a few further modifications to their proposed
 elevations:
   - Rather than using the Nichiha panels
        (the wood toned fiber cement) in the
        mountain skyline pattern, they
        recommend that they be used as the
        soffit material under the canopy/ledge
        building element.

   -   They also recommended that the
       entire area between the columns on
       the taller portion of the building use
       this same or similar Nichiha panels
       (see the orange shaded areas on all 4
       elevations).

 The current elevations have not yet
 incorporated the desired changes the
 committee recommended be implemented.

 They are proposing to use a grey brick veneer as the base material, with a white brick used on the building column elements
 and middle areas, with an articulated EIFS cornice at the top and a canopy/ledge that wraps around the building The
 architect is hoping to achieve a “mountain meets urban” design ethos with the mix and placement of materials and forms
 consistent with Cairns Master Plan (see Exhibit “C” for the Cairns Design Standards Exceptions Request).

 Landscaping & Open Space:
 The applicant has submitted a full landscape plan for the site. Staff has found that it generally meets the requirements specific
 to the Cairns Design Standards, the CBD Zone and those of Chapter 21-25 entitled Landscaping Standards. The plans
 reflect a variety of deciduous and coniferous trees, shrubs, and perennial flowers. This plan shows urban amenities such as
 street furniture, trash receptacles, bike racks, and planter areas along these street corridors. They are beneficial to the project
 design and enhance the pedestrian experience.

 Public Art:
 Some public art is required and can be utilized to promote a sense of community identity and is required to be integrated
 into building and site designs. Murals, statuary, and building elements can be used to reflect local cultural and ethnic interests
 and add a unique element to public spaces within the development. Staff intends to work with the applicant on identifying
 potential applications through final site plan review to ensure this is finalized before final approval of the project.

 Cairns Design Standards:
 The developer has been working with staff on the review of the Cairns Design Standards. While the project is meeting many
 of these standards, they are requesting several exceptions. The applicant has identified proposed enhancements they are
 offering as offsets to the exceptions to the standards.

 There are two types of Cairns Standards exceptions requests: hardships and non-hardships. In review of the requested
 exceptions, staff finds that their requests fit into the non-hardship category as they can’t meet all five of the criteria of
 hardship type. The non-hardship exception requests must meet the following criteria:
     o The intent of the applicable regulations are met.
     o The intent of the Master Plan is met.
     o The same or better-quality design is achieved.
 The following exceptions are sought (analysis of each item is shown below):

       10000 Centennial P arkway       | S a n d y, U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   |   p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   |   f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   |   s a n d y . u t a h . g ov
Swig State Street (Cairns Preliminary Site Plan Review) – SPR01062025 - 006903                                                                            Page 5



     •   Drive-thru Lanes
             - A dual drive-thru layout is proposed while the standards limit it to one lane.
     •   On-street Parking
             - Creek Run Way is a Type 3 street that requires on-street parking. Due to the small size of the lot, providing
                 that would not be practical due to the proximity of the intersection and site visibility that would prohibit
                 the stalls from being there.
     •   Parking Lot Landscaping
             - Typical standards for landscaping in the parking field include eight (8’) min width and 15% of total
                 landscape area within that area. They are seeking to reduce these requirements to five (5’) width and 13%
                 of total landscape coverage.
     •   Building Frontage
             - Typical standards for the primary and secondary building frontage requires 70% of the street frontage to
                 be occupied by buildings. With the reservation of area for the pedestrian bridge, they are seeking an
                 exception.
     •   Building Height of single story
             - This area of the Cairns District calls for a minimum building height of four stories (mid-rise). This is a
                 single story, single use building that will not meet this requirement.
     •   Fenestration and Building Materials of base, middle, and top
             - There is a fenestration requirement of 70% min glass window/door treatments on all elevations of a
                 commercial building. While they are proposing the required amount of glazing, but not meeting the visible
                 glass requirement that provides actual visibility in and out of the building. They are proposing a faux
                 window system on the majority of the window areas.
             - The proposed building elevations show the use of a thin brick, rather than a full brick veneer.
     •   Building Setback
             - The south side of the building does not meet the setback of 16 feet from Creek Run Way (10200 South).
                 They are requesting an exception to the reserved pedestrian bridge easement area that prevents a building
                 being placed along the street frontage and meeting the setback requirements.
     •   Building Entrances
             - The building has no public building entrances as the proposed facility interior is for employee use only. All
                 service to the public is administered through either the walk-up window facing State St. or the drive-thru
                 window on the back of the building.
     •   Pedestrian Crossing Refuge Island
             - There is a proposed pedestrian crossing at the State Street intersection. However, State Street exceeds 48’
                 in width and would require a pedestrian refuge island to improve walkability and pedestrian comfort. With
                 the future pedestrian bridge and the area provided for that future improvement on-site, this requirement
                 will be offset.

 The applicant is proposing the following as development enhancements to offset the impact of not complying with the
 requirements listed above:
     • Pedestrian Bridge Easement Area. The proposal includes a reservation of the land area needed for a pedestrian
         bridge over State Street which would be a significant improvement to the walkability of the area. This corner is a
         crossroads of trails in the city and we anticipate a growing volume of pedestrians in the area using these trails and
         frequenting businesses in the area as the Cairns District gets built out.
     • Enhanced Outdoor Dining Area. Proposing a small shade structure and festoon lighting of the outdoor dining area.
     • Crosswalks. Proposing enhancements to the existing pedestrian street crosswalks that adhere to the Cairns
         specifications.
     • Secondary Monument Sign, Vehicular Wayfinding Signs & Pedestrian Wayfinding Signs. The exact locations of
         these proposed signs have not been determined, but the applicant is willing to install these within their own property.
         Staff can work with the applicant to identify these locations prior to final approval.
      10000 Centennial P arkway       | S a n d y, U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   |   p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   |   f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   |   s a n d y . u t a h . g ov
Swig State Street (Cairns Preliminary Site Plan Review) – SPR01062025 - 006903                                                                            Page 6



  Development enhancements are intended to balance the scales of failure to comply with all of Cairns Design Standards.
  Staff generally supports these proposed enhancements and their
  intent to offset the negative impacts to the branding identity and
  unique design elements that make this area unique.

  Staff Concerns
  The outdoor dining area could be further enhanced by not
  creating a separate shade structure, but one that is connected to
  the building and is an extension of it out towards the street to
  really create a street presence and really create an outdoor dining
  room that would provide protection from the elements and be an
  attractive amenity to pedestrians.

Recommendation
Motion #1 Conditional Use Permit
 Staff recommends that the Planning Commission approve the conditional use permit for a restaurant drive-thru window for
 the Swig State Street located at 10101 S. State St. based on the following findings and subject to the following conditions:

Findings:
   1. The applicant has met the intent and substantially complies with most of the applicable Cairns Design Standards and
       the CBD Zone.

    2. The site design sufficiently mitigates the potential negative impacts of the proposed use.

Conditions:
   1. That all requirements of the CBD Zone and Cairns Design Standards, related to this use, be in full compliance.

    2. That the developer proceeds through the final site plan review process with staff.

    3. That the use be reviewed upon legitimate complaint.

Motion #2 Site Plan Review
 Staff recommends that the Planning Commission determine preliminary site plan review is complete for the Swig State
 Street located at 10101 S. State St. based on the following findings and subject to the following conditions:

Findings:
   1. The applicant has met the intent and substantially complies with most of the applicable Cairns Design Standards and
       the Cairns Master Plan.

    2. The applicant has demonstrated that they have largely complied or intend to comply with the Land Development
       Code requirements for the CBD Zone.

    3. The proposed development enhancements provide the same or better overall quality design than the exceptions
       sought to achieve the branding identity and unique design elements that make this area stand out.

Conditions:
   1. That street improvements be carried out according to Plan and Profiles approved by the Sandy City Engineer and
       specifically:
           a. That State Street be further improved and dedicated to include 18-foot-wide streetscape behind the curb and
                gutter and that a pedestrian access easement and maintenance agreement provided for any areas of the
                sidewalk that extend beyond the dedication area.
       10000 Centennial P arkway      | S a n d y, U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   |   p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   |   f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   |   s a n d y . u t a h . g ov
Swig State Street (Cairns Preliminary Site Plan Review) – SPR01062025 - 006903                                                                           Page 7


            b. That Creek Run Way (10200 South) be further improved and dedicated to include 18-foot-wide streetscape
               behind the curb and gutter and that a pedestrian access easement and maintenance agreement provided for
               any areas of the sidewalk that extend beyond the dedication area.

   2. That the developer proceeds through the final site plan review process with staff. The Final Site Plan shall be in
      compliance with all Development Code requirements, staff redlines, and those modifications as required by the
      Planning Commission.

   3. That the development comply with all Building & Safety, Fire and Life Safety Codes applicable to this type of use.

   4. That the developer be responsible to meet all provisions of the Cairns Design Standards, with the following approved
      exceptions:
          a. dual drive-thru layout
          b. elimination of on-street parking requirements
          c. deviations to the parking lot landscaping standards (as detailed in the staff report)
          d. lesser building frontage (as shown in the proposed site plan)
          e. a single story building
          f. reduction to the fenestration and glazing requirements (as shown in the proposed building elevations)
          g. use of a thin brick veneer
          h. increased building setback from Creek Run Way
          i. elimination of public building entrances
          j. elimination of a pedestrian crossing refuge island

   5. That the developer be responsible to install the following development enhancements to offset the listed exceptions:
         a. provide the city with a Pedestrian Bridge Easement Area.
         b. enhanced outdoor dining area.
         c. enhancements to the existing pedestrian street crosswalks that adhere to the Cairns specifications at State St.
              and Creek Run Way.
         d. construct one secondary monument sign at corner of State St and Creek Run Way, one vehicular wayfinding
              sign along State St., and one pedestrian wayfinding sign along Creek Run Way.

   6. All utility boxes (i.e. transformers, switch gear, telephone, cable tv, etc.) shall be shown on the site plan and shall be
      placed underground or moved behind the front setback of the buildings and screened from view. Each box shall be
      shown in its exact location and shall be noted with its exact height, width and length. Building utility meters shall be
      mounted to the side or rear elevation or screened with a wing wall if fronting a public street.

   7. That the developer be responsible for the placement of a temporary 6-foot-high chain link fence around the perimeter
      of the project during the construction phase of the project for security and safety. Said fence shall also be required to
      include fabric to prohibit blowing dust problems, if it becomes necessary or if it is required by the Community
      Development Department during Site Plan Review.

   8. That the architectural massing, design, and proposed building materials be approved with the recommended changes
      by the Architectural Review Committee and staff being incorporated into the final building design.

   9. That the applicant work with staff to determine an appropriate implementation of public art within the project area.


 Planner:



 Mike Wilcox

      10000 Centennial P arkway      | S a n d y, U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   |   p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   |   f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   |   s a n d y . u t a h . g ov
Swig State Street (Cairns Preliminary Site Plan Review) – SPR01062025 - 006903                                                                       Page 8


 Planning Director

File Name: S:\USERS\PLN\STAFFRPT\2025\SPR01062025-006903 SWIG STATE ST\PC\STAFF REPORT.DOCX




     10000 Centennial P arkway   | S a n d y, U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   |   p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   |   f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   |   s a n d y . u t a h . g ov
Swig State Street (Cairns Preliminary Site Plan Review) – SPR01062025 - 006903                                                                       Page 9


                                                 Exhibit “A”
                                   – see attachment for the full set of plans –




     10000 Centennial P arkway   | S a n d y, U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   |   p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   |   f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   |   s a n d y . u t a h . g ov
Swig State Street (Cairns Preliminary Site Plan Review) – SPR01062025 - 006903                                                                     Page 10


                                                 Exhibit “B”
                                   – See attachment for the full document –




     10000 Centennial P arkway   | S a n d y, U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   |   p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   |   f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   |   s a n d y . u t a h . g ov
Swig State Street (Cairns Preliminary Site Plan Review) – SPR01062025 - 006903                                                                     Page 11



                                                 Exhibit “C”
                                   – See attachment for the full document –




     10000 Centennial P arkway   | S a n d y, U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   |   p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   |   f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   |   s a n d y . u t a h . g ov
