                                     S ANDY CITY C O M M UN I TY D E V E L O PM E N T
                                                                                                                                       JAMES SORENSEN
                                                                                                                                    COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
                                                                                                                                          DIRECTOR

                                                                                                                                         MONICA ZOLTANSKI
                                                                                                                                             MAYOR

                                                                                                                                          SHANE E. PACE
                                                                                                                                  CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER




                               Staff Report Memorandum
                                                     February 20, 2025


To:             Planning Commission
From:           Community Development Department
Subject:        America First Field (Real Salt Lake Soccer Stadium) -                                                                 SPR#06-40(2025)
                2025 Parking and Access Management Plan
                9256 S. State St.                                                                                                                    RC Zone
                [Community #2, Civic Center]


 Public Meeting Notice:          This item has been noticed to property owners within a specified area
                                 surrounding this proposal, which is beyond 500 feet.



Request
 The applicant, Justin Nelson, representing Real Salt Lake
 (the owner/operator of America First Field (formerly
 known as Rio Tinto Stadium)), is requesting review and
 approval of the updated 2025 Parking and Access
 Management Plan for America First Field located at 9256
 S. State St. The request is to present an annual update to
 their parking management plan that allows for temporary
 off-site event parking. The intent of this review is to
 inform the city of the applicants’ plans to address parking
 and access to the stadium for all events held therein. The
 applicant has provided some updated materials prepared
 by Hales Engineering (see the 2025 Parking & Access
 Management Plan in Exhibit A).

Background
 On June 19, 2008, the Planning Commission reviewed
 and approved the Final Parking and Access Management
 Plan for the Real Salt Lake Soccer Stadium which allows
 for temporary off-site event parking. One of the
 conditions of approval and code requirements is that the
 stadium operators return to the Planning Commission
 annually to review and update the plan. This plan has
 been updated annually since that date.

    10000 Centennial Parkway       | S a nd y , U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   | p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   | f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8     | s a n d y . u t a h . go v
America First Field – 2025 Parking and Access Management Plan – SPR#06-40(2025)                                                                               Page 2


                                                 Property Case History
 Case Number                                                              Case Summary
                     Real Salt Lake Stadium Parking and Access Management Plan approved by Planning
   SPR#06-40
                     Commission in 2008. Annual updates have occurred since then.

                                                 Public Notice and Outreach
                                                 A public notice has been mailed out to property owners within a specified
                                                 area surrounding this proposal, which is beyond 500 feet of the subject
                                                 property. We have specifically provided mailed notice to property owners that
                                                 may be affected or within the off site temporary parking areas. The area that
                                                 has been noticed is shown in the map to the left.

                                                 Neighborhood Meeting
                                                 A neighborhood meeting has not been held. The purpose of these annual
                                                 updates is to provide an opportunity for public input on any issues related to
                                                 off-site event parking.

Analysis
 The America First Field has already received approval for off-site event parking in 2008. That approval is to be reviewed
 annually as part of that approval and the code requirement found in section 21-24-3(a)(2)(e)(14) of the Land
 Development Code:

Sec. 21-24-3. - Special Access and Parking Provisions.

   (a) Alternative to On-Site Parking.

       (2) Temporary Off-Site Event Parking.

           e.   The Parking and Access Management Plan shall be submitted with the application for the project
                or use and shall:

                14. Be updated on a yearly basis or as otherwise required by the Planning Commission after the
                    project or event has commenced operation. The Planning Commission shall hold at least one
                    public meeting prior to the approval of any updated Parking and Access Management Plan.

 The applicant’s Transportation Engineering Firm, Hales Engineering, has prepared revisions to the 2025 Parking and
 Access Management Plan for America First Field and will present those revisions to the Planning Commission for review
 and approval.

 While soccer matches are the primary function of the stadium, there are several other programmed events that are planned
 to be held at the stadium property including: car shows, community run/walk events, concerts on the East Plaza,
 banquets/parties, and Sandy City movie night. Most of these other events are projected to have up to 5,000 attendees and
 should not cause a parking issue beyond the demand generated for soccer matches. The venue has not hosted concerts
 within the stadium for several years, but that changed last year in hosting the Kenney Chesney concert. There are no
 announced concerts planned to be hosted within the stadium and only one concert announced for the East Plaza at this
 time. However, the updated plan does address full stadium concert use and the larger crowds that it would generate.
   10000 Centennial Parkway     | S a nd y , U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   | p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   | f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   | s a n d y . u t a h . go v
America First Field – 2025 Parking and Access Management Plan – SPR#06-40(2025)                                                                                 Page 3


 The Planning Commission has brought up concerns in past years regarding event scheduling conflicts, especially with
 venues such as the Mountain America Expo Center, Hale Centre Theatre, City Hall, etc. The updated information
 provided by the applicant does address this issue (see page 7). Events held at those listed facilities are expected to have just
 a few conflicting events that overlap planned events at America First Field. Those stalls would not be available during
 those conflicts which reduce the maximum potential of off-site parking. They would still have above the total minimum of
 4,548 stalls secured for stadium related parking needs. One addition to past plans is the introduction of a shuttle route to
 the South Towne Mall and opens access to at least 975 stalls during events (see Figure 3). They have also identified over
 5,000 stalls in unofficial stalls within a 15-minute walk of the stadium that could be utilized during conflicting events in
 the area (see Figure 4).

 In the past, the Planning Commission has also sought Sandy Police to attend the annual update meetings to provide
 additional information regarding traffic/parking issues in this affected area. A representative from the Sandy City Police
 Department should be in attendance to talk about traffic and parking enforcement over the last year. Staff is not aware of
 any concerns on this matter.

 Staff Concerns
 Staff has the following concerns with the proposed updates:
 1. There are some minor updates/inaccuracies that should be addressed in their updated plan and public information
     websites regarding parking and accessing the stadium. In general, staff would like to see a greater emphasis on transit
     options be highlighted to encourage more transit usage and lower the parking demand during events.
          a. The “Know Before You Go”
               landing page on RSL’s
               website does show the range
               of transportation options
               (driving and parking, public
               transportation, shuttle, and
               rideshare) but this same info
               is not available under the
               “Parking and Directions”
               header. That information
               should also be amended to
               fix the following issues:
                      i. The public transportation section does not mention any bus routes to the stadium, the closest station
                         to the stadium, Sandy Expo, and the link to UTA train schedules is broken.
                     ii. The section on the free shuttle lacks a heading and a link to a map of the shuttle route, and available
                         park and ride lot stops along the route.
                    iii. The parking maps only show the lots immediately around the stadium but do not show any of the
                         other secured parking areas that are contained within the exhibits of the updated Parking and Access
                         Management Plan (see Exhibit A). There is no longer a map that shows where parking is prohibited.
                         This should be added to the parking information links.
          b. The stadium website for America First Field has a different set of information. Both websites should be
               consistent and provide the same level of information. This site only has reference to parking with no reference
               to the other 4 options for arriving at the stadium. They do have the parking map that illustrates the
               prohibited parking areas, and the additional parking lots available in the area. Consistency and breadth of
               information available through either website is key.
 2. Road Construction
          a. The extension of the Monroe Plaza Way is under way, with one half of this project nearly completed. Phase 2
   10000 Centennial Parkway       | S a nd y , U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   | p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   | f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   | s a n d y . u t a h . go v
America First Field – 2025 Parking and Access Management Plan – SPR#06-40(2025)                                                                                Page 4


              will be extending this roadway south from the canal to 9400 South that will impact the stadiums parking lot
              areas and remove some of that parking. This will have an impact on traffic and some parking options in the
              area while this road project is under construction. It’s anticipated that this will begin in April and be
              completed by the end of October.

Recommendation
  Staff recommends that the Planning Commission Planning Commission review and approve the 2025 Parking and Access
  Management Plan for America First Field located at 9256 S. State St. based on the following findings and subject to the
  following conditions:

Findings:
    1. The updated information shows that they are still in compliance with the original parking management plan
       approved in 2008 and can effectively manage off-site parking demands for the stadium.

    2. The proposed changes and updates to the original plan are routine, timely, and minor in nature.

Conditions:
   1. That next year’s Parking and Access Management Plan include the following corrections/updates:
            a. a map of the neighborhood areas where parking is prohibited to be added to the Appendix A.
            b. all code references be updated to reflect the current Land Development Code.
            c. include updated maps and information materials that reflect the range of transportation options (driving
                and parking, public transportation, shuttle, and rideshare).
            d. include updated maps that include the newly extended Monroe Plaza Way.
   2. That the applicant make changes to the public information made available to patrons on how to efficiently access
       through different modalities when attending events at America First Field that fully address the concerns of staff
       referenced in this report.


  Planner:




  Mike Wilcox
  Planning Director

File Name: S:\USERS\PLN\STAFFRPT\2006\SPR-06-40_REAL_SOCCER_STADIUM\2025 UPDATE\STAFF REPORT.DOCX




    10000 Centennial Parkway     | S a nd y , U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   | p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   | f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   | s a n d y . u t a h . go v
America First Field – 2025 Parking and Access Management Plan – SPR#06-40(2025)                                                                             Page 5


                                                       Exhibit “A”
                                             See attached for full document




   10000 Centennial Parkway   | S a nd y , U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   | p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   | f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   | s a n d y . u t a h . go v
