                                                      S ANDY C I T Y C O M M U N I T Y D E V E L O P M E N T
                                                                                                                                                      JAMES SORENSEN
                                                                                                                                                   COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
                                                                                                                                                         DIRECTOR

                                                                                                                                                        MONICA ZOLTANSKI
                                                                                                                                                            MAYOR

                                                                                                                                                        SHANE E. PACE
                                                                                                                                                     CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE
                                                                                                                                                            OFFICER



                                                   Staff Report Memorandum
                                                                 September 4, 2025

 To:                   City Council via Planning Commission
 From:                 Community Development Department
 Subject:              Amendments to Title 21 of the Land Development Code                                                                     CA08262025-0007027
                       related to Brewpubs


 Public Hearing Notice: This item has been noticed on public websites, sent to affected entities and
                                                 posted in three public locations at least 10 days prior to the Public Hearing.


Request
 At the request of the City Council, the Community Development Department is proposing to amend Title 21, Land
 Development Code, Chapter 21-8, Permitted Land Uses in the Commercial, Office, Industrial, Mixed Use, Transit Corridor, and Research
 and Development Districts, Chapter 21-19, Special Development (SD) Districts, Section 21-23-16, Alcoholic Beverages; Distance
 Requirements, and Section 21-37-2, “A” Definitions. The proposed code amendments will allow a brewpub to be in a variety
 of zoning districts beyond just the downtown Cairns District, but only if it is on the same premises as a sit-down restaurant.
 Brewpubs would be limited to the zoning districts where restaurants are currently allowed to serve alcohol. Additional code
 amendments include changes for consistency within the City Code and aligning with Utah Code.

Background
 On April 29, 2025, the City Council adopted Resolution #25-16C pertaining to brewpubs, which is understood to be a
 restaurant with a brewery that manufactures and sells beer and heavy beer for on-site consumption. The resolution directed
 city staff to consider streamlining the permitting process, lowering the regulatory and financial barriers to entry and to
 evaluate areas that brewpubs could be allowed to operate that are outside of the downtown Cairns District. To address these
 objectives, the Community Development Department conducted an evaluation, prepared a report with recommendations
 and presented those findings to the City Council at their regularly scheduled meeting on July 15, 2025. At that meeting the
 City Council expressed support for the recommendations, directed staff to prepare code amendments and proceed with the
 standard process for adoption. This proposal implements the Council’s direction with amendments to the Sandy Land
 Development Code (Title 21). The specific code amendments are included as Exhibit “A” (red-lined version) and Exhibit
 “B” (clean version).

Public Notice
 The city issued notice of the public hearing for the proposed code amendments on public websites, mailed notice to affected
 entities and posted in three public locations at least 10 days prior to the Planning Commission public hearing in accordance
 with the Land Development Code Sec. 21-36-1 and the Utah State Code § 10-9a-205.

Analysis
 Required Licenses for Brewpubs: To begin, it is important to understand the licensing requirements for a brewpub to
 operate in Utah. Under Utah Code, Alcoholic Beverage Control Act (Title 32B), two alcoholic beverage licenses are required
   1 0 0 0 0 C e n t e n n i a l Pa r k w a y   | S a n d y, U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   |   p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   |   f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8    |   s a n d y . u t a h . g ov
Amendments Related to Brewpubs – CA08262025-0007027                                                                                                                     Page 2

 from the Utah Department of Alcoholic Beverage Services (DABS), with concurrence from the City:
     1. An alcoholic beverage brewery manufacturing license is required for the manufacturing, brewing, storage, and transport of
        beer and heavy beer. With this type of license, a brewpub can offer “beer” (≤5% alcohol content) and “heavy beer”
        (>5% alcohol content) to restaurant patrons for on-site consumption. A brewery manufacturing license also allows
        a brewpub to sell packaged “beer” that has been manufactured on-site to local distributors and to customers for
        take-out if they have dined at the restaurant.
     2. An alcoholic beverage restaurant license is required for the service of alcohol to patrons for consumption on the premises.
         This type of license has three categories for the service of alcoholic beverages, which includes: 1) “beer only,” 2)
         “limited service” for beer, heavy beer and wine, and 3) “full service” for beer, heavy beer, wine and liquor. A
         restaurant license also requires at least 70% of the total restaurant business to be generated from the sale of food;
         this ensures each restaurant is engaged primarily in serving meals to the public (vs. alcohol).
 In sum, to allow a restaurant with a brewery that manufactures and sells beer and heavy beer for on-site consumption (aka
 brewpub) to operate in Sandy, both an alcoholic beverage restaurant license and a brewery manufacturing license are
 required from DABS with concurrence from the city.

 Prohibited Areas for Brewpubs: Another consideration for brewpubs is the distancing requirements of the Utah Code
 (UC 32B-1-202), which prohibits restaurants that serve alcoholic (including brewpubs) from locating within proximity to a
 “community location.” Community locations include public or private schools, churches, public libraries, public playgrounds
 and public parks. This distancing requirement acts like an overlay that is applied to all zones when evaluating whether an
 alcoholic beverage license may be issued at a specific location. These community locations have been identified on a map
 to illustrate the extent of this restriction. Please refer to the map in the exhibits for a visual reference.

 Zoning Districts for Brewpubs: Currently, there are many zoning districts throughout Sandy that allow restaurants to
 serve alcohol with the proper license; however, very few zones outside of the downtown Cairns District allow for a
 brewery manufacturing license. Since a brewery that is on the same premises as a sit-down restaurant has very similar
 operational characteristics as a restaurant that is licensed to serve alcohol, the zones that allow a restaurant to serve
 alcohol were identified and proposed for brewpubs as well. Therefore, a brewery manufacturing license is proposed to be
 allowed in a variety of commercial zones beyond just the Cairns District, but only if it is on the same premises as a sit-
 down restaurant. The zoning districts both in and out of the Cairns District that would allow a brewpub are listed below.
 These locations are also illustrated on a map in the exhibits.

                      Commercial, Office, Mixed Use and Industrial Zones - Land Use Matrix (Chapter 21-8)
                      Central Business District (CBD)
                      Central Business District—Parkway Subdistrict (CBD-P)
                      Central Business District—Office Subdistrict (CBD-O)
                      Central Business District—Arts and Culture Subdistrict (CBD-A&C)
                      Planned Unit Development Commercial (CR-PUD)
                      Regional Commercial District (RC)
                      Boulevard Commercial District (BC)
                      Community Commercial District (CC)
                      Neighborhood Commercial District (CN)
                      Convenience Commercial District (CvC)
                      Neighborhood Commercial District-Historic Sandy (CN-HSN)
                      Historic Boulevard Commercial District (HBD)
                      Limited Commercial District (LC)
                      Professional Office District (PO)
                      Industrial District (ID)
                      Auto Mall – Commercial Subdistrict (AM)
                      Mixed Use District (MU)
                      Research Development District (RD)
                      Special Development Zones (Chapter 21-19)
                      SD – MU Mixed Use District (7800 S 1300 E)
                      SD – Magna – CC Subdistrict (9400-9800 S 2000 E)
                      SD – Smart District – CC & CN Subdistricts (7800 S 1300 E)

      1 0 0 0 0 C e n t e n n i a l Pa r k w a y   | S a n d y, U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   |   p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   |   f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   |   s a n d y . u t a h . g ov
Amendments Related to Brewpubs – CA08262025-0007027                                                                                                                     Page 3

                      SD – Harada District (7575 S Union Park)
                      SD – JHS Miller District (9400 S State St)
                      SD – CC Timberline District (9400 S 900 E)
                      SD – MU-X – Ski Connect District (9200 S 1000 E)
                      SD – Union Heights Professional Office District – CvC & PO Subdistricts (7700 S 1300 E)
                      SD – PO Silver Sage District (10900 S 700 E)

 Permitted vs. Conditional Use for Brewpubs: The same approach that is used to identify appropriate zoning districts for
 brewpubs is used to determine whether the use should be allowed as a permitted use vs. a conditional use in the zone. If
 the zone currently allows restaurants to serve alcohol as a permitted use, then a brewpub is proposed to be a permitted use
 in that same zone. Alternatively, if the zone currently allows restaurants to serve alcohol as a conditional use, then a brewpub
 is proposed to be a conditional use in that same zone.

 Consistency with City and State Regulations: As part of this initiative to allow more opportunities for brewpubs in
 Sandy is ensuring alignment between city and state regulations. Consequently, some of the proposed code amendments are
 for the purpose of aligning City Code with current Utah Code. This includes removing alcoholic beverage licenses that are
 no longer valid and updating the land use terms with current licensing terminology of the state law. For example, Utah Code
 has replaced “dining club” liquor licenses with “restaurant” liquor licenses; and terms such as “club” is replaced with “bar
 establishment” and “tavern” is replaced with “on-premises beer tavern” license. These types of amendments are included
 in this proposal where appropriate.

 Lastly, consistency between different sections of the Land Development Code was a consideration for the
 SD–(JHS)(MILLER) zoning district at 9400 S State Street (Sec. 21-19-16) because this zone is located entirely within the
 downtown Cairns District. Despite being in the Cairns District, the land uses related to alcoholic beverage licenses are not
 included in the zone like they are in the downtown CBD zones. Consequently, the alcoholic beverage license related land
 uses are added to the SD–(JHS)(MILLER) zone for consistency within the City Code.

Non-Conforming Uses
 The proposed code amendments would not create any non-conforming situations but it will remove a non-conforming land
 use in the SD–MU Mixed Use Zone at 7800 S 1300 E (Sec. 21-19-3). In this location of the SD-MU zone there is an existing
 restaurant with a valid alcoholic beverage license that has been operating for many years; however, alcoholic beverage
 restaurant licenses are not listed as a land use in that zone. Temporary event permits are allowed, but the code is silent on
 restaurant licenses. Therefore, alcoholic beverage restaurant licenses (and a brewery manufacturing license) are proposed to
 be added to this zone, but only at the 7800 S 1300 E location. There is another SD–MU zone at 9400 S 1300 E, which is
 located around the city’s amphitheater. This change would not apply in that area, and the proposed amendments specify this
 restriction on location.

Land Development Code Purpose Compliance
 The Sandy City Land Development Code in 21-1-3 lists the criteria explaining the intent and purpose of the Ordinance. The
 purpose is:
       21-1-3 Purpose
       This Code is adopted to implement Sandy City’s General Plan and to promote public health, safety, convenience, aesthetics, welfare;
       efficient use of land; sustainable land use and building practices; transportation options and accessibility; crime prevention; timely
       citizen involvement in land use decision making; and efficiency in development review and land use administration. Specifically, this
       Code is established to promote the following purposes:
       1. General
          a. To facilitate the orderly growth and development of Sandy City.
          b. To facilitate adequate provision for transportation, water, sewage, schools, parks, and other public requirements.
          c. To stabilize property values.
          d. To enhance the economic well-being of Sandy City and its inhabitants.
       2. Implementation of General Plan
          To coordinate and ensure the implementation of the City’s General Plan through effective execution of development review

      1 0 0 0 0 C e n t e n n i a l Pa r k w a y   | S a n d y, U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   |   p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   |   f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   |   s a n d y . u t a h . g ov
Amendments Related to Brewpubs – CA08262025-0007027                                                                                                                     Page 4

             requirements, adequate facility and services review and other goals, policies, or programs contained in the General Plan.
       3. Comprehensive, Consistent and Equitable Regulations
          To establish a system of fair, comprehensive, consistent and equitable regulations, standards and procedures for review and
          approval of all proposed land development within the City.
       4. Efficiently and Effectively Managed Procedures
          a. To promote fair procedures that are efficient and effective in terms of time and expense.
          b. To be effective and responsive in terms of the allocation of authority and delegation of powers and duties among ministerial,
              appointed, and elected officials.
          c. To foster a positive customer service attitude and to respect the rights of all applicants and affected citizens.

 The proposed code amendment is consistent with the purpose of the Land Development Code because the proposal
 promotes public health, safety and welfare; ensures consistency and equitable standards; establishes fair procedures that are
 efficient and effective in terms of time and expense; facilitates the orderly growth and development of Sandy City; and is
 consistent with the Sandy City General Plan.

General Plan Compliance
 The Sandy City General Plan encourages appropriate development standards for all uses and zoning categories within the
 city. The proposed code amendment furthers that goal and objective by establishing appropriate land development standards
 for all uses and zoning categories within Sandy City.

Recommendation
 Staff recommends that the Planning Commission forward a positive recommendation to the City Council to amend Title
 21, of the Sandy Municipal Code, relating to Brewpubs, as shown in Exhibit “A”, based on the following findings:

Findings:
   1. The City Council may amend land use ordinances consistent with the purposes of the Sandy Land Development
       Code, the Sandy City General Plan, and the Utah Code, Municipal Land Use, Development, and Management Act
       per Title 21 Chapter 5 of the Sandy Municipal Code.
   2. The proposal is reviewed by the Planning Commission and City Council in accordance with the requirements of Title
      21 Chapter 5 of the Sandy Municipal Code.
   3. The proposal complies with the purpose of the Land Development Code under Section 21-1-03 by promoting the
      public health, safety, and welfare; ensuring consistent and equitable standards; establishing fair procedures that are
      efficient and effective in terms of time and expense; and by facilitating the orderly growth and development of Sandy
      City.
   4. The proposal complies with the Goals and Policies of the General Plan by establishing appropriate development
      standards for all uses and zoning categories within Sandy City.

 Planner:



 Melissa Anderson
 Zoning Administrator

 Exhibits:
    A. Proposed code amendments (red-lined version)
    B. Proposed code amendments (clean version)
    C. Map of buffers that restrict brewpub locations
    D. Map of areas a brewpub could locate
 File Name: S:\USERS\PLN\STAFFRPT\2025\CA08262025-0007027 - BREW PUB CODE AMEND\STAFF REPORT\STAFF REPORT - CODE AMEND. FOR
 BREW PUBS.FINAL.DOCX

      1 0 0 0 0 C e n t e n n i a l Pa r k w a y   | S a n d y, U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   |   p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   |   f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   |   s a n d y . u t a h . g ov
                                                       EXHIBIT “A”



CHAPTER 21-8. LAND USES IN THE COMMERCIAL, OFFICE, INDUSTRIAL, MIXED
USE, TRANSIT CORRIDOR, AND RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT DISTRICTS

Sec. 21-8-1. Purpose and Applicability.
(a)    Purpose. The commercial districts land use standards are intended to:
       (1)    Allow a mixture of complementary land uses that may include retail, offices, commercial services, civic
              uses, and housing to create economic and social vitality, and to encourage the linking of trips; and
       (2)    Develop commercial areas that encourage walking as an alternative to driving and provide
              employment and housing options.
(b)    Applicability. Uses permitted under this chapter shall conform to the development standards provided
       elsewhere in this title, and to the application procedures for development as applicable. Uses shall also
       conform to any overlay district requirements that are applicable. Uses permitted as a conditional use shall
       comply with the requirements for conditional use permits.
(LDC 2008, § 15A-08-01)

Sec. 21-8-2. Permitted Land Use Matrix by the Commercial, Office, Industrial, Mixed Use,
          Transit Corridor, and Research and Development Districts.
      (a)    Matrix Explanation. The following matrix lists all permitted uses within Sandy City commercial, office,
             industrial, mixed use, transit corridor, and research and development districts. The letters "P," "C," "S,"
             or "N" shall mean "Permitted," "Conditional," "Special Use," or "Not Permitted," respectively. Refer to
             special use standards within this title for all land uses allowed with an "S." For those letters which are
             followed by a slash "/" the second letter shall indicate those location restrictions for businesses located
             within 250 feet of a residential district (unless bisected by a major arterial road as determined by the
             Sandy City Transportation Engineer in the Transportation Element of the Sandy City General Plan). For
             those land uses marked with a superscript number (1 ), refer to Subsection (c) of this section for
             explanation.




                                                        Page 1 of 17
                                                                                    EXHIBIT “A”

(b)       Table of Uses.
      Land Use Category          CBD     CBD-    CBD-    CBD-    CR-   RC     BC     CC     CN      CvC   CN      HBD   LC    PO    ID    AM        AM         MU     TC   RD
                                         P       O       A&C     PUD                                      (HSN)                           (Dealer   (Comm
                                                                                                                                          ships)    ercial)
      Alcoholic beverage club    P       P       P       P       P     P      P      P      P       P     P       P     C     C     P     N         P          P      N    P
      (dining) liquor license*
      Alcoholic beverage club    N       N       N       N       N     N      N      N      N       N     N       N     N     N     N     N         N          N      N    N
      bar establishment
      (equity) liquor license*
      31 & 32

      Alcoholic beverage club    N       N       N       N       N     N      N      N      N       N     N       N     N     N     N     N         N          N      N    N
      bar establishment
      (fraternal) liquor
      license* 31 & 32
      Alcoholic beverage club    P21 &   P21 &   P21 &   P21 &   N     P21    N      N      N       N     N       N     N     N     N     N         P21 & 22   P21    N    N
                                 22      22      22      22            & 22                                                                                    & 22
      bar establishment
      (socialbar) liquor
      license* 31 & 32
      Alcoholic beverage         P       P       P       P       P     P      N      C      N       N     P       N     N     N     N     N         P          C      N    C
      hotel license 31
      Alcoholic beverage         P21 &   P21 &   P21 &   P21 &   N     P21    N      N      N       N     N P30   N     N     N     P23   N         P21 & 22   P21    N    N
                                 22      22      22      22
      manufacturing license                                      P30   & 22
                                                                              P30    P30    P30     P30           P30   C30   C30                              & 22
                                                                                                                                                                           P30
      Alcoholic beverage off-    P       P       P       P       P     P      P      P/C    C       P     P       C     P/C   N     P     N         P          P      N    P
      premises beer retailer
      license
      Alcoholic beverage on-     P       P       P       P       P     P      P      P      C       C     C       C     P     C     C     N         P          C      N    C
      premises banquet and
      catering license 31
      Alcoholic beverage on-     P21 &   P21 &   P21 &   P21 &   N     P21    N      N      N       N     N       N     N     N     N     N         P21 & 22   P21    N    N
                                 22      22      22      22            & 22                                                                                    & 22
      premises beer tavern
      license 31 & 32
      Alcoholic beverage on-     P       C       C       P       P     P      P/C    P/C    P/C     N     N       C     P/C   N     C     N         P          C      N    N
      premises recreational
      beer retailer license 31
      Alcoholic beverage         P       P       P       P       P     P      N      N      N       N     N       N     N     N     P     N         P          P      N    N
      package agency 31



                                                                                     Page 2 of 17
                                                         EXHIBIT “A”

  Alcoholic beverage         P   C   N   P   P   P   P    P      P       N   P   P   C   P   P   N   P   C   N   N
  reception center license
  31

  Alcoholic beverage         N   N   N   N   N   N   N    N      N       N   N   N   N   N   N   N   N   N   N   N
  resort license 31
  Alcoholic beverage         P   P   P   P   P   P   P    P      P       P   P   P   C   C   P   N   P   P   N   P
  restaurant beer-only
  license* 31 & 32
  Alcoholic beverage         P   P   P   P   P   P   P    P      P       P   P   P   C   C   P   N   P   P   N   P
  restaurant full service
  license* 31 & 32
  Alcoholic beverage         P   P   P   P   P   P   P    P      P       P   P   P   C   C   P   N   P   P   N   P
  restaurant limited
  service license* 31 & 32
  Alcoholic beverage         P   P   P   P   P   P   P    P      P       P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   N   P
  single event permits
  Alcoholic beverage state   C   C   C   C   C   C   N    N      N       N   N   N   N   N   N   N   C   C   N   N
  liquor store 31
  Alcoholic beverage         P   P   P   P   P   P   P    P      P       P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   N   P
  temporary beer event
  permits


...




                                                          Page 3 of 17
                                                    EXHIBIT “A”

*     Additional requirements for clubs and restaurants. Any newly constructed club or restaurant shall meet the
      following requirements:
      (1)   Main entrance shall have an unimpeded line of sight from the street or public way.
      (2)   Lighting of the building at the entrance.
      (3)   Provide parking lot lighting. All lighting shall be shielded and directed downward to avoid light spill
            beyond the property line.
(c)   Explanatory Notes for Land Use Matrix.
...
      21.   Cannot be a stand-alone use. Must be on the same premises as a sit-down restaurant, retail complex,
            hotel, or stadium.
      22.   Only allowed within the Cairns District (boundaries include 9000 South to the north, the TRAX rail to
            the east, 10600 South Street on the south and Interstate 15 to the west, as illustrated in “The Cairns
            Design Standards.” Also to include the automall commercial areas from 10600 South to 11000 South).
            For locations outside of the Cairns District, a brewery manufacturing license shall only be allowed if it is
            on the same premises as a sit-down restaurant. A stand-alone brewery manufacturing license, and
            winery and distillery manufacturing licenses are not permitted for locations outside of the Cairns
            District.
      23.   May be a stand-alone use or on the same premises with a restaurant.
      24.   Not permitted if the property has frontage onto 300 West (the freeway frontage road).
      25.   A multiple unit dwelling is permitted as a standalone use only within the geographic area south of
            11000 South, east of Auto Mall Drive, and west of the Jordan and Salt Lake City Canal, and need not be
            part of a mixed use development. The associated site plan must also utilize the Storefront Conservation
            Overlay Zone (found in Section 21-14).
      26.   A mixed use development is only allowed within the Cairns Master Plan Area. These developments
            shall be regulated by Cairns Design Standards.
      27.   A maximum of one transitional housing facility may be allowed as a conditional use on Lot 3 of the Ark
            Subdivision.
      28.   A home-based microschool may be allowed only as a home occupation subject to the home
            occupations standards and qualifications. If not otherwise permitted in the zone, the home-based
            microschool may only be considered for existing legal nonconforming dwellings.
      29.   A micro-education entity is a permitted use subject to the special use standards and qualifications.
      30.   A brewery manufacturing license shall only be allowed if it is on the same premises as a sit-down
            restaurant; a stand-alone brewery manufacturing license is not permitted. Winery and distillery
            manufacturing licenses are not permitted.
      31.   The distance requirements between outlets and restaurants from community locations of the Alcoholic
            Beverage Control Act also apply (UCA 32B-1-202).
      32.   Additional requirements for bar establishments and restaurants. Any newly constructed bar
            establishment or restaurant shall meet the following requirements:
            (a)    Main entrance shall have an unimpeded line of sight from the street or public way.
            (b)    Lighting of the building at the entrance.
            (c)    Provide parking lot lighting. All lighting shall be shielded and directed downward to avoid light
                   spill beyond the property line.



                                                        Page 4 of 17
                                                           EXHIBIT “A”

CHAPTER 21-19. - SPECIAL DEVELOPMENT (SD) DISTRICTS

...

Sec. 21-19-3. - SD-MU MIXED USE—7800 S. 1300 E. and 9400 S. 1300 E.
(a) Purpose. The purpose of the Special Use District (Mixed Use) is to provide for mixed uses, such as professional
    office, multifamily and quasi-public.
(b) Uses Allowed.
      (1) Permitted Uses.
             a.     Alcoholic beverage single event permit.
             b.     Alcoholic beverage temporary beer permit.
             c.     Alcoholic beverage restaurant beer-only license. 1 & 2
             d.     Alcoholic beverage restaurant, limited service. 1 & 2
             e.     Alcoholic beverage restaurant, full service. 1 & 2
             f.     Alcoholic beverage brewery manufacturing license. 1 & 3
             cg. Athletic, tennis or health club.

       ...
       Explanatory Notes.
       1.         The alcoholic beverage restaurant and brewery manufacturing licenses are only allowed in the SD-MU
                  Mixed Use zone at 7800 S 1300 E; these uses are not allowed within SD-MU zone at 9400 S 1300 E. The
                  distance requirements between outlets and restaurants from community locations of the Alcoholic
                  Beverage Control Act also apply (UCA 32B-1-202).
       2.         Additional requirements for bar establishments and restaurants. Any newly constructed bar
                  establishment or restaurant shall meet the following requirements:
                   (a)   Main entrance shall have an unimpeded line of sight from the street or public way.
                   (b)   Lighting of the building at the entrance.
                   (c)   Provide parking lot lighting. All lighting shall be shielded and directed downward to avoid light
                         spill beyond the property line.
       3.         A brewery manufacturing license shall only be allowed if it is on the same premises as a sit-down
                  restaurant; a stand-alone brewery manufacturing license is not permitted. Winery and distillery
                  manufacturing licenses are not permitted.

...

Sec. 21-19-6A. SD/CC—Planned Center/Community Commercial Subdistrict.
...
(c)    Uses Allowed.
       (1)         Permitted Uses. A commercial center, community is allowed as a conditional use. Upon issuance of a
                   conditional use permit and completion of site plan review, the following uses shall be allowed as
                   permitted uses:



                                                             Page 5 of 17
                                                    EXHIBIT “A”

        a.      Arcade.* 1
        b.      Athletic, tennis, or health club.
        c.      Automotive self-service station.* 1
        d.      Automotive service station.* 1
        e.      Business or financial services.
        f.      Commercial retail sales and services.
        g.      Commercial school.
        h.      Medical and health care offices.
        i.      Public service.
        j.      Recreation center.* 1
        k.      Recreation, indoor.
        l.      Religious or cultural activity.
        m.      Restaurant.
        n.      Restaurant, drive-in.* 1
        o.      Theater, concert hall.** 2
        p.      Alcoholic beverage off-premises beer retailer license.* 1
        q.      Alcoholic beverage restaurant beer-only license.*** 3 & 5
        r.      Alcoholic beverage restaurant, limited service license.*** 3 & 5
        s.      Alcoholic beverage restaurant, full service license.*** 3 & 5
        t.      Alcoholic beverage on-premises recreational beer retailer. 5
        u.      Alcoholic beverage brewery manufacturing license. 4

   Explanatory Notes.
   *1. These uses require a conditional use permit if located within 250 feet of a residentially zoned district.
   **2. These uses are not permitted if located within 250 feet of a residentially zoned district.
   ***3. Additional requirements for clubsbar establishments and restaurants. Any newly constructed
        clubbar establishment or restaurant shall meet the following requirements:
             (1a) Main entrance shall have an unimpeded line of sight from the street or public way.
             (2b) Lighting of the building at the entrance.
             (3c) Provide parking lot lighting. All lighting shall be shielded and directed downward to avoid light
                  spill beyond the property line.
   4.        A brewery manufacturing license shall only be allowed if it is on the same premises as a sit-down
             restaurant; a stand-alone brewery manufacturing license is not permitted. Winery and distillery
             manufacturing licenses are not permitted.
   5.        The distance requirements between outlets and restaurants from community locations of the
             Alcoholic Beverage Control Act also apply (UCA 32B-1-202).
(2) Conditional Uses. The following uses may be allowed but shall require a separate conditional use permit:
    a. Auto repair, minor.


                                                      Page 6 of 17
                                                       EXHIBIT “A”

            b. Commercial parking garage.
            c. Industry, light.
            d. Motel/hotel.
            e. Park and ride facilities.
            f. Public schools.
            g. Public utility station.
            h. Alcoholic beverage single event permit.
            i. Alcoholic beverage temporary beer event permit.
            j. Alcoholic beverage State liquor store. 5

...

Sec. 21-19-8. SD (Smart) District.

...
(3) Planned Center/Community Center District CC
...
      (c)     Uses Allowed. The following uses may be allowed but shall require a separate Conditional Use Permit.
              (1)   Bar, Tavern, Lounge, Club
              (2)   Liquor Sales
              (1)   Alcoholic beverage bar establishment (bar) license 1 & 3
              (2)   Alcoholic beverage brewery manufacturing license 2
              (3)   Alcoholic beverage on-premises beer tavern license 1 & 3
              (4)   Alcoholic beverage off-premises beer retailer license
              (5)   Alcoholic beverage package agency license 3
              (6)   Alcoholic beverage, restaurant, beer-only license 1 & 3
              (7)   Alcoholic beverage, restaurant, full service license 1 & 3
              (8)   Alcoholic beverage, restaurant, limited service license 1 & 3
              (9)   Alcoholic beverage state liquor store 3
              (310) Any permitted use that is not integrated with the Planned Center or which occupies a separate
                    lot or its own street frontage.
       Explanatory Notes.
       1.    Additional requirements for bar establishments and restaurants. Any newly constructed bar
             establishment or restaurant shall meet the following requirements:
             (a)    Main entrance shall have an unimpeded line of sight from the street or public way.
             (b)    Lighting of the building at the entrance.
             (c)    Provide parking lot lighting. All lighting shall be shielded and directed downward to avoid light
                    spill beyond the property line.



                                                          Page 7 of 17
                                                      EXHIBIT “A”

       2.   A brewery manufacturing license shall only be allowed if it is on the same premises as a sit-down
            restaurant; a stand-alone brewery manufacturing license is not permitted. Winery and distillery
            manufacturing licenses are not permitted.
       3.   The distance requirements between outlets and restaurants from community locations of the Alcoholic
            Beverage Control Act also apply (UCA 32B-1-202).
...
(4) Planned Center/Neighborhood District CN
...
      (c)    Uses Allowed. The following uses may be allowed but shall require a separate Conditional Use Permit.
             (1)   Alcoholic beverage bar establishment (bar) license 1 & 3
             (2)   Alcoholic beverage brewery manufacturing license 2
             (3)   Alcoholic beverage on-premises beer tavern license 1 & 3
             (4)   Alcoholic beverage off-premises beer retailer license
             (5)   Alcoholic beverage package agency license 3
             (6)   Alcoholic beverage, restaurant, beer-only license 1 & 3
             (7)   Alcoholic beverage, restaurant, full service license 1 & 3
             (8)   Alcoholic beverage, restaurant, limited service license 1 & 3
             (9)   Alcoholic beverage state liquor store 3
             (10) Amusement Arcade
             (2)   Bar, Taver, Lounge, Club
             (311) Commercial Parking Garage
             (412) Industry, Light
             (5)   Liquor Sales
             (613) Public Utility Stations
             (714) Restaurant – Drive In
             (815) Any use that is not integrated with the Planned Center or which occupies a separate lot or its
                   own street frontage.
       Explanatory Notes.
       1.   Additional requirements for bar establishments and restaurants. Any newly constructed bar
            establishment or restaurant shall meet the following requirements:
            (a)    Main entrance shall have an unimpeded line of sight from the street or public way.
            (b)    Lighting of the building at the entrance.
            (c)    Provide parking lot lighting. All lighting shall be shielded and directed downward to avoid light
                   spill beyond the property line.
       2.   A brewery manufacturing license shall only be allowed if it is on the same premises as a sit-down
            restaurant; a stand-alone brewery manufacturing license is not permitted. Winery and distillery
            manufacturing licenses are not permitted.




                                                        Page 8 of 17
                                                     EXHIBIT “A”

       3.   The distance requirements between outlets and restaurants from community locations of the Alcoholic
            Beverage Control Act also apply (UCA 32B-1-202).

...

Sec. 21-19-14. SD(Harada)—7575 S. Union Park Avenue.
...
(b)   Uses Allowed.

...
      (2)   Conditional Uses.
            a.    Alcoholic beverage package agency license. 3
            b.    Alcoholic beverage on-premises recreational beer retailer license. 3
            c.    Alcoholic beverage reception center license. 3
            d.    Alcoholic beverage, restaurant, beer-only license. *1 & 3
            e.    Alcoholic beverage, restaurant, full service license. *1 & 3
            f.    Alcoholic beverage, restaurant, limited service license. *1 & 3
            g.    Alcoholic beverage brewery manufacturing license. 2
            gh.   Assisted living facility, both limited and large capacity.

...
Explanatory Notes.
*1.   Additional requirements for clubsbar establishments and restaurants. Any newly constructed clubbar
      establishment or restaurant shall meet the following requirements:
            (1a) Main entrance shall have an unimpeded line of sight from the street or public way.
            (2b) Lighting of the building at the entrance.
            (3c) Provide parking lot lighting. All lighting shall be shielded and directed downward to avoid light
                 spill beyond the property line.
2.    A brewery manufacturing license shall only be allowed if it is on the same premises as a sit-down restaurant;
      a stand-alone brewery manufacturing license is not permitted. Winery and distillery manufacturing licenses
      are not permitted.
3.    The distance requirements between outlets and restaurants from community locations of the Alcoholic
      Beverage Control Act also apply (UCA 32B-1-202).

...

Sec. 21-19-16. SD (JHS)(MILLER)—Historic Jordan High School District—9400 South State
         Street.

...
(c)   Uses Allowed.




                                                       Page 9 of 17
                                                 EXHIBIT “A”

(1)     A planned commercial center is allowed as a conditional use, and all uses in the SD(JHS)(MILLER) Zone
        are conditional uses. Upon completion of conditional use permit review, the Planning Commission may
        also approve a list of businesses consistent with the land uses listed within this section. This list of
        businesses will not require further review by the Planning Commission, but must comply with the
        original terms of the planned commercial center conditional use permit.
(2)     Regardless of the size and ownership of individual parcels, a development plan must be submitted
        showing both existing and reasonable projected development on adjoining properties, determined
        through consultation with adjoining property owners. The intent of the above is to effectuate the end
        result of an overall planned development with appropriate cross-easements, consistent site standards,
        etc., even though properties may be individually owned.
(3)     For those land uses not listed, the use shall not be permitted.
        a.    Land Use Category.
              1.    Alcoholic beverage bar establishment (bar) license 1, 2, 3 & 4
              2.    Alcoholic beverage hotel license 3 & 4
              3.    Alcoholic beverage manufacturing license. 2 & 3
              4.    Alcoholic beverage off-premises beer retailer license 3
              5.    Alcoholic beverage on-premises banquet and catering license 3 & 4
              6.    Alcoholic beverage on-premises beer tavern license 1, 2, 3 & 4
              7.    Alcoholic beverage package agency license 3 & 4
              8.    Alcoholic beverage reception center license 3 & 4
              19.   Alcoholic beverage restaurant beer-only license.* 1 & 4
              210. Alcoholic beverage restaurant, limited service license.* 1 & 4
              311. Alcoholic beverage restaurant, full service license.* 1 & 4
              4.    Alcoholic beverage club (dining) liquor license.*
              612. Alcoholic beverage on-premises recreational beer retailer license. 4
              13.   Alcoholic beverage single event permits.
              14.   Alcoholic beverage state liquor store. 3, 4 & 5
              15.   Alcoholic beverage temporary beer event permits.
              716. Arcade entertainment.
      ...
Explanatory Notes.
*1. Additional requirements for clubsbar establishments and restaurants. Any newly constructed clubbar
    establishment or restaurant shall meet the following requirements:
        (1a) Main entrance shall have an unimpeded line of sight from the street or public way.
        (2b) Lighting of the building at the entrance.
        (3c) Provide parking lot lighting. All lighting shall be shielded and directed downward to avoid light
             spill beyond the property line.
2.      Cannot be a stand-alone use. Must be on the same premises as a sit-down restaurant, retail complex,
        hotel, or stadium.



                                                  Page 10 of 17
                                                        EXHIBIT “A”

      3.    Only allowed within the Cairns District (boundaries include 9000 South to the north, the TRAX rail to
            the east, 10600 South Street on the south and Interstate 15 to the west, as illustrated in “The Cairns
            Design Standards”).
      4.    The distance requirements between outlets and restaurants from community locations of the Alcoholic
            Beverage Control Act also apply (UCA 32B-1-202).
      5.    Requires a conditional use permit in accordance with this Title.
      ...



Sec. 21-19- 18. - SD-CC—Timberline—9400 S. 900 E.

...
(c)   Uses Allowed. A commercial center, community is allowed as a conditional use upon completion of site plan
      review and issuance of the conditional use permit.
      (1)   Permitted Uses.
            a.       Alcoholic beverage off-premises beer retailer license.
            b.       Alcoholic beverage on-premises recreational beer retailer. 3
            c.       Alcoholic beverage restaurant beer-only license.* 1 & 3
            d.       Alcoholic beverage restaurant, full service license.* 1 & 3
            e.       Alcoholic beverage restaurant, limited service license.* 1 & 3
            f.       Alcoholic beverage brewery manufacturing license. 2
            fg.      Animal kennel, veterinary offices.
      ...
      Explanatory Notes.
      *1.        Additional requirements for clubsbar establishments and restaurants. Any newly constructed clubbar
                 establishment or restaurant shall meet the following requirements:
            (1a) Main entrance shall have an unimpeded line of sight from the street or public way.
            (2b) Lighting of the building at the entrance.
            (3c) Provide parking lot lighting. All lighting shall be shielded and directed downward to avoid light
                 spill beyond the property line.
      2.    A brewery manufacturing license shall only be allowed if it is on the same premises as a sit-down
            restaurant; a stand-alone brewery manufacturing license is not permitted. Winery and distillery
            manufacturing licenses are not permitted.
      3.    The distance requirements between outlets and restaurants from community locations of the
            Alcoholic Beverage Control Act also apply (UCA 32B-1-202).


...




                                                          Page 11 of 17
                                                         EXHIBIT “A”

Sec. 21-19-21. - Special District Mixed Use—SD-X—Ski Connect—9200 S. 1000 E.

...
(c)     Uses Allowed.
        (1)     Matrix Explanation. The matrix below lists all permitted uses within the SD(X) Zone. The letters "P,"
                "C," "S," or "N" shall mean "Permitted," "Conditional," "Special Use," or "Not Permitted," respectively.
                For those letters which are followed by a slash "/" the second letter shall indicate those location
                restrictions for business located within 250 feet of a residential district (unless bisected by a major
                arterial road as determined by the Sandy City Transportation Engineer in the Transportation Element of
                the Sandy City General Plan).
                                                       Land Uses in SD(X) Zone

      Accessory apartments                                                                              N
      Accessory structure (unless otherwise specified)                                                  C
      Agriculture                                                                                       N
      Alcohol or tobacco specialty store                                                                N
      Alcoholic beverage club (dining) liquor license*                                                  N
      Alcoholic beverage clubbar establishment (equity) liquor license* 1 & 3                           N
      Alcoholic beverage clubbar establishment (fraternal) liquor license* 1 & 3                        N
      Alcoholic beverage clubbar establishment (socialbar) liquor license* 1 & 3                        N
      Alcoholic beverage hotel license 3                                                                N
      Alcoholic beverage brewery manufacturing license 2                                                NP
      Alcoholic beverage off-premises beer retailer license                                             P
      Alcoholic beverage on-premises banquet and catering license 3                                     N
      Alcoholic beverage on-premises beer tavern license 1 & 3                                          N
      Alcoholic beverage on-premises recreational beer retailer license 3                               C
      Alcoholic beverage package agency license 3                                                       N
      Alcoholic beverage reception center license 3                                                     C
      Alcoholic beverage resort license 3                                                               N
      Alcoholic beverage, restaurant, beer-only license* 1 & 3                                          P
      Alcoholic beverage, restaurant, full service license* 1 & 3                                       P
      Alcoholic beverage, restaurant, limited service license* 1 & 3                                    P
      Alcoholic beverage single event permits                                                           C
      Alcoholic beverage state liquor store 3                                                           N
      Alcoholic beverage temporary beer event permits                                                   C

...
       Explanatory Notes.
       *1. Additional requirements for clubsbar establishments and restaurants. Any newly constructed clubbar
           establishment or restaurant shall meet the following requirements:
              (1a) Main entrance shall have an unimpeded line of sight from the street or public way.
              (2b) Lighting of the building at the entrance.
              (3c) Provide parking lot lighting. All lighting shall be shielded and directed downward to avoid light spill
                   beyond the property line.



                                                          Page 12 of 17
                                                       EXHIBIT “A”

       2.     A brewery manufacturing license shall only be allowed if it is on the same premises as a sit-down
              restaurant; a stand-alone brewery manufacturing license is not permitted. Winery and distillery
              manufacturing licenses are not permitted.
       3.     The distance requirements between outlets and restaurants from community locations of the Alcoholic
              Beverage Control Act also apply (UCA 32B-1-202).

...

Sec. 21-19-24. - SD(PO)(Union Heights) Professional Office District—7700 S. 1300 E.

...
(c)     Uses Allowed.
        ...
        (2)     The matrix below lists all permitted uses within the PO and CvC Subdistricts of the SD(PO)(Union
                Heights) commercial zone. The letters "P," "C," or "N" shall mean "Permitted," "Conditional," or "Not
                Permitted," respectively.

      Land Use                                                   PO Subdistrict                CvC Subdistrict
      Alcoholic beverage brewery manufacturing                   C                             C
      license 2
      Alcoholic beverage off-premises beer retailer              N                             P
      license
      Alcoholic beverage, restaurant, beer-only                  C                             C
      license.* 1 & 3
      Alcoholic beverage, restaurant, limited service            C                             C
      license.* 1 & 3
      Alcoholic beverage, restaurant, full service               C                             C
      license.* 1 & 3
      Alcoholic beverage reception center license 3              N                             C
      Alcoholic beverage single event permits                    C                             C
      Alcoholic beverage temporary beer event permit             C                             C
      ...
       Explanatory Notes.
       *1. Additional requirements for clubsbar establishments and restaurants. Any newly constructed clubbar
           establishment or restaurant shall meet the following requirements:
                (1a) Main entrance shall have an unimpeded line of sight from the street or public way.
                (2b) Lighting of the building at the entrance.
                (3c) Provide parking lot lighting. All lighting shall be shielded and directed downward to avoid light
                     spill beyond the property line.
       2.     A brewery manufacturing license shall only be allowed if it is on the same premises as a sit-down
              restaurant; a stand-alone brewery manufacturing license is not permitted. Winery and distillery
              manufacturing licenses are not permitted.
       3.     The distance requirements between outlets and restaurants from community locations of the Alcoholic
              Beverage Control Act also apply (UCA 32B-1-202).



                                                        Page 13 of 17
                                                    EXHIBIT “A”


CHAPTER 21-23. - COMMERCIAL, OFFICE, INDUSTRIAL, AND TRANSIT CORRIDOR
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS

...
Sec. 21-23-16. Alcoholic Beverages; Distance Requirements.
The distance requirements between outlets and restaurants from community locations shall be governed by the
Title 32B, Alcoholic Beverage Control Act (UCA 32B-1-202).
(a)   Location Restricted for On-Premises Consumption, State Store, or Package Agency. Any establishment
      requesting to be licensed, for the on-premises consumption of alcoholic beverages, a State store or a
      package agency will not be located in proximity of a school, church, public library, public park or public
      playground unless that establishment is able to comply with all provisions of Section 32B of the Utah
      Alcoholic Beverage Control Act.
(b)   Reduced Distance Review. If a Alcohol Beverage Restaurant Full Service and/or Limited License, Alcohol
      Beverage On-Premises Recreational Beer Retailer, Alcohol Beverage Reception Center License and/or Alcohol
      Beverage On-Premises Banquet and Catering License, Alcohol Beverage Single Event Permit and/or Alcohol
      Beverage Temporary Beer Permit, State store, package agency or Social Club establishment is requesting to
      be licensed for the sale and/or consumption of alcoholic beverages, and that establishment will be located
      within the prescribed proximity to a school, church, public library, public park or public playground as
      described in Section 32B of the Utah Alcoholic Beverage Control Act, the Sandy City Planning Commission,
      when permitted by State Code, may reduce the distance requirement from a church, public library, or a
      public park as part of a variance request to be supplied to the Utah Alcoholic Beverage Control Commission.
(c)   Definitions for Alcoholic Beverage Proximity Restrictions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used
      in this section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly
      indicates a different meaning:
      (1)   Church means a building set apart primarily for the purpose of worship in which religious services are
            held and with which clergy is associated. The main body is kept for that use and not put to any other
            use inconsistent with its primary purpose and which is tax exempt under the laws of the State of Utah.
      (2)   School means any building (public or private) used primarily for the general education of minors.



(LDC 2008, § 15A-23-16; Ord. No. 21-08, § 1(Exh. A), 3-23-2021)




                                                     Page 14 of 17
                                                    EXHIBIT “A”

CHAPTER 21-37. – DEFINITIONS

...
Sec. 21-37-2. "A" Definitions.
...
(12) Alcoholic beverage establishments means: require a license from Sandy City in accordance with Title 15 of
     this Code, and the Utah Department of Alcoholic Beverage Services. Unless otherwise updated in Utah Code,
     Title 32B, Alcoholic Beverage Control Act, and for purposes of this Title, alcoholic beverage establishments
     mean:
      a.    Club, dining. A club that has dining, and which operates under a dining club license issued by the Utah
            Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control.
      ba.   ClubBar establishment, equity. An equity club bar establishment license allows the storage, sale,
            service, and consumption of alcoholic beverages on the premises that is owned by its members and
            run by a board of directors elected by the members, such as a country club, and which operates under
            an equity club license issued by the Utah Department of Alcoholic Beverage ControlServices. Food must
            be available for customers, but there is no required percentage of food sales.
      cb.   ClubBar establishment, fraternal. A fraternal bar establishment license allows the storage, sale, service,
            and consumption of alcoholic beverages on the premises, such as a mutual benefit or patriotic
            association that is organized under a lodge system, and which operates a fraternal club license issued
            by the Utah Department of Alcoholic Beverage ControlServices. Food must be available for customers,
            but there is no required percentage of food sales.
      dc.   Club, socialBar Establishment, bar. A general purpose club, bar license allows for the storage, sale,
            service, and consumption of alcoholic beverages on the premises of a bar (a social drinking
            establishment), which includes a nightclub, in which a variety of food is available and which operates
            under a social club liquorbar establishment license issued by the Utah Department of Beverage
            ControlServices. Food must be available for customers, but there is no required percentage of food
            sales.
      ed.   Hotel license. Available on a limited basis from the Utah Department of Alcoholic Beverage
            ControlServices consisting of a general license and three or more sublicenses. One sublicense must be
            a restaurant license or bar establishment, and one must be an on-premises banquet license. Hotels
            with more than one clubbar establishment must apply for separate sublicenses and may not combine
            multiple clubsbar establishments into one sublicense. Sublicenses include all the various restaurant
            licenses, taverns, club licenses and on-premises beer retailer. Licenses are subject to size and location
            restrictions as described by the Utah Department of Beverage ControlServices.
      fe.   Manufacturing license. Manufacturing licenses include brewery, distillery, and winery licenses. A
            brewery license is required to manufacture, brew, store, transport, or export beer and heavy beer. A
            distillery license is required to manufacture, store, transport, import or export liquor. A winery license
            is required to manufacture, store, transport, import and export wines.
      gf.   Off-premises beer retailer license. An off-premises beer retailer license shall entitle the licensee to sell
            beer in original containers (not to exceed two liters) means an establishment licensed to sell beer, with
            a maximum of five percent by volume, in original containers for consumption off the premises.
      hg.   On-premises banquet and catering license. An on-premises banquet and catering license is required for
            the storage, sale, service, and consumption of liquor, wine, heavy beer, or beer for contracted banquet
            activities on the premises of a hotel, resort facility, sports center, or convention center. It also allows
            for room service in hotels and resorts.



                                                     Page 15 of 17
                                             EXHIBIT “A”

ih.   On-premises beer tavern license. An on-premises beer tavern license shall entitle the licensee to sell
      beer for consumption on the licensed premises in open containers and on draft not exceeding two
      liters, where the revenue from the sale of beer exceeds the revenue of the sale of food. Minors are not
      permitted on the premises of a tavern.
ji.   On-premises recreational beer retailer license. An on-premises recreational beer retailer license is
      required for the sale of beer at retail for on-premises consumption for establishments that are tied to a
      "recreational amenity," as defined by the Utah Department of Beverage ControlServices. At least 70
      percent of the sales at a recreational facility must be from food or may be from gross revenues directly
      related to the recreational amenity.
kj.   Package agency. A retail liquor location operated under a contractual agreement with the Department
      of Alcoholic Beverage ControlServices, by a person other than the State, who is authorized by the Utah
      Alcoholic Beverage ControlServices Commission to sell packaged liquor for consumption off the
      premises of the agency.
lk.   Reception center license. A reception center license is required for the storage, sale, service, and
      consumption of liquor, wine, heavy beer, and beer for banquet or event functions on the premises of a
      reception center which must be at least 5,000 square feet and have culinary facilities on the premises
      or under the control of the center that are adequate to prepare full meals. ItsA reception center’s
      primary purpose must be leasing its facility to a third party for the third party's event. No more than 30
      percent of annual gross receipts may be from the sale of alcohol.
ml.   Resort license. Resort licenses are required for the storage, sale, service, and consumption of alcoholic
      beverages on the premises of a resort building that has at least 150 dwelling or lodging
      accommodations (50 percent of which must be owned by a person other than the resort licensee), and
      the building must be at least 400,000 square feet. The resort building must be affiliated with a ski area
      that abuts the resort building premises. Available on a limited basis from the Utah Department of
      Alcoholic Beverage Services.
nm. Restaurant, beer only license. A beer-only restaurant license shall entitle the licensee to sell beer for
    consumption on the premises of a licensed restaurant in open containers and on draft in any size not
    to exceed two liters capacity, in conjunction with an order of food.is required for storage, sale, service,
    and consumption of beer (but not heavy beer) on the premises of a restaurant that is engaged
    primarily in serving meals to the general public. Beer may be purchased in conjunction with an order
    for food that is prepared, sold and served at the restaurant. Each restaurant must maintain at least 70
    percent of its total restaurant business from the sale of food.
on.   Restaurant, full service license. Restaurant liquor licenses are required for the storage, sale, service,
      and consumption of beer, heavy beer, wich and liquor beverages on the premises of a restaurant that
      is engaged primarily in serving meals to the general public. Also known as a full service restaurant.
      Alcoholic beverages may be purchased in conjunction with an order for food that is prepared, sold, and
      served at the restaurant. Each restaurant must maintain at least 70 percent of its total restaurant
      business from the sale of food.
po.   Restaurant, limited service license. Limited service restaurant liquor licenses are required for the
      storage, sale, service, and consumption of wine, heavy beer, and beer on the premises of a restaurant
      that is engaged primarily in serving meals to the general public. Alcoholic beverages may be purchased
      in conjunction with an order for food that is prepared, sold and served at the restaurant. Each
      restaurant must maintain at least 70 percent of its total restaurant business from the sale of food.
qp.   Single event permits. A single event license allows the licensee to sell and allows the on-premises
      consumption of any alcohol (including beer) at a temporary event. The licenses are available to a bona
      fide partnership, corporation, limited liability company, church, political organization, or incorporated
      association or to a recognized subordinate lodge, chapter or other local unit thereof that is conducting
      a civic or community enterprise or convention. Multiple single event permits may be obtained per



                                              Page 16 of 17
                                                  EXHIBIT “A”

            calendar year and is limited to the number of events permitted by the Utah Department of Alcoholic
            Beverage ControlServices.
      rq.   State liquor store. A facility for the sale of package liquor that is located on the premises owned or
            leased by the State and is operated by a State employee. The term "State liquor store" does not include
            a package agency, a licensee, or a permittee.
      sr.   Temporary beer event permits. Temporary beer event permits are required allow the licensee to sell
            beer for on-premises consumption at a temporary event. Multiple temporary beer event permits may
            be obtained per calendar year and is limited to the number of events permitted by the Utah
            Department of Alcoholic Beverage ControlServices.

...

(LDC 2008, § 15A-37-02; Ord. No. 10-03, 2-19-2010; Ord. No. 10-12, 4-20-2010; Ord. No. 10-30, 8-8-2010; Ord. No.
12-30, 8-20-2012; Ord. No. 13-13, 6-5-2013; Ord. No. 16-13, 3-23-2016; Ord. No. 17-09, 3-9-2017; Ord. No. 18-22,
§ 1(15A-37-02), 8-30-2018; Ord. No. 18-28, § 1(15A-38), 9-20-2018; Ord. No. 19-23, § 1(Exh. A), 10-8-2019; Ord.
No. 21-08, § 1(Exh. A), 3-23-2021; Ord. No. 21-28, § 1(Exh. A), 9-28-2021)




                                                   Page 17 of 17
                                                      EXHIBIT “B”


CHAPTER 21-8. LAND USES IN THE COMMERCIAL, OFFICE, INDUSTRIAL, MIXED
USE, TRANSIT CORRIDOR, AND RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT DISTRICTS

Sec. 21-8-1. Purpose and Applicability.
(a)    Purpose. The commercial districts land use standards are intended to:
       (1)    Allow a mixture of complementary land uses that may include retail, offices, commercial services, civic
              uses, and housing to create economic and social vitality, and to encourage the linking of trips; and
       (2)    Develop commercial areas that encourage walking as an alternative to driving and provide
              employment and housing options.
(b)    Applicability. Uses permitted under this chapter shall conform to the development standards provided
       elsewhere in this title, and to the application procedures for development as applicable. Uses shall also
       conform to any overlay district requirements that are applicable. Uses permitted as a conditional use shall
       comply with the requirements for conditional use permits.
(LDC 2008, § 15A-08-01)

Sec. 21-8-2. Permitted Land Use Matrix by the Commercial, Office, Industrial, Mixed Use,
          Transit Corridor, and Research and Development Districts.
      (a)    Matrix Explanation. The following matrix lists all permitted uses within Sandy City commercial, office,
             industrial, mixed use, transit corridor, and research and development districts. The letters "P," "C," "S,"
             or "N" shall mean "Permitted," "Conditional," "Special Use," or "Not Permitted," respectively. Refer to
             special use standards within this title for all land uses allowed with an "S." For those letters which are
             followed by a slash "/" the second letter shall indicate those location restrictions for businesses located
             within 250 feet of a residential district (unless bisected by a major arterial road as determined by the
             Sandy City Transportation Engineer in the Transportation Element of the Sandy City General Plan). For
             those land uses marked with a superscript number (1 ), refer to Subsection (c) of this section for
             explanation.




                                                        Page 1 of 16
                                                                                      EXHIBIT “B”

(b)        Table of Uses.
      Land Use Category            CBD     CBD-    CBD-    CBD-    CR-   RC     BC     CC     CN      CvC   CN      HBD   LC    PO    ID    AM        AM         MU     TC   RD
                                           P       O       A&C     PUD                                      (HSN)                           (Dealer   (Comm
                                                                                                                                            ships)    ercial)

      Alcoholic beverage bar       N       N       N       N       N     N      N      N      N       N     N       N     N     N     N     N         N          N      N    N
      establishment (equity)
      license31 & 32
      Alcoholic beverage bar       N       N       N       N       N     N      N      N      N       N     N       N     N     N     N     N         N          N      N    N
      establishment
      (fraternal) license31 & 32
      Alcoholic beverage bar       P21 &   P21 &   P21 &   P21 &   N     P21    N      N      N       N     N       N     N     N     N     N         P21 & 22   P21    N    N
      establishment (bar)          22      22      22      22            & 22                                                                                    & 22

      license31 & 32
      Alcoholic beverage           P       P       P       P       P     P      N      C      N       N     P       N     N     N     N     N         P          C      N    C
      hotel license 31
      Alcoholic beverage           P21 &   P21 &   P21 &   P21 &   P30   P21    P30     P30    P30    P30   P30     P30   C30   C30   P23   N         P21 & 22   P21    N    P30
      manufacturing license        22      22      22      22            & 22                                                                                    & 22

      Alcoholic beverage off-      P       P       P       P       P     P      P      P/C    C       P     P       C     P/C   N     P     N         P          P      N    P
      premises beer retailer
      license
      Alcoholic beverage on-       P       P       P       P       P     P      P      P      C       C     C       C     P     C     C     N         P          C      N    C
      premises banquet and
      catering license 31
      Alcoholic beverage on-       P21 &   P21 &   P21 &   P21 &   N     P21    N      N      N       N     N       N     N     N     N     N         P21 & 22   P21    N    N
      premises beer tavern         22      22      22      22            & 22                                                                                    & 22

      license 31 & 32
      Alcoholic beverage on-       P       C       C       P       P     P      P/C    P/C    P/C     N     N       C     P/C   N     C     N         P          C      N    N
      premises recreational
      beer retailer license 31
      Alcoholic beverage           P       P       P       P       P     P      N      N      N       N     N       N     N     N     P     N         P          P      N    N
      package agency 31
      Alcoholic beverage           P       C       N       P       P     P      P      P      P       N     P       P     C     P     P     N         P          C      N    N
      reception center license
      31




                                                                                       Page 2 of 16
                                                         EXHIBIT “B”

  Alcoholic beverage         N   N   N   N   N   N   N    N      N       N   N   N   N   N   N   N   N   N   N   N
  resort license 31
  Alcoholic beverage         P   P   P   P   P   P   P    P      P       P   P   P   C   C   P   N   P   P   N   P
  restaurant beer-only
  license31 & 32
  Alcoholic beverage         P   P   P   P   P   P   P    P      P       P   P   P   C   C   P   N   P   P   N   P
  restaurant full service
  license31 & 32
  Alcoholic beverage         P   P   P   P   P   P   P    P      P       P   P   P   C   C   P   N   P   P   N   P
  restaurant limited
  service license31 & 32
  Alcoholic beverage         P   P   P   P   P   P   P    P      P       P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   N   P
  single event permits
  Alcoholic beverage state   C   C   C   C   C   C   N    N      N       N   N   N   N   N   N   N   C   C   N   N
  liquor store 31
  Alcoholic beverage         P   P   P   P   P   P   P    P      P       P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   N   P
  temporary beer event
  permits


...




                                                          Page 3 of 16
                                                    EXHIBIT “B”



(c)   Explanatory Notes for Land Use Matrix.
...
      21.   Cannot be a stand-alone use. Must be on the same premises as a sit-down restaurant, retail complex,
            hotel, or stadium.
      22.   Only allowed within the Cairns District (boundaries include 9000 South to the north, the TRAX rail to
            the east, 10600 South Street on the south and Interstate 15 to the west, as illustrated in “The Cairns
            Design Standards.” Also to include the automall commercial areas from 10600 South to 11000 South).
            For locations outside of the Cairns District, a brewery manufacturing license shall only be allowed if it is
            on the same premises as a sit-down restaurant. A stand-alone brewery manufacturing license, and
            winery and distillery manufacturing licenses are not permitted for locations outside of the Cairns
            District.
      23.   May be a stand-alone use or on the same premises with a restaurant.
      24.   Not permitted if the property has frontage onto 300 West (the freeway frontage road).
      25.   A multiple unit dwelling is permitted as a standalone use only within the geographic area south of
            11000 South, east of Auto Mall Drive, and west of the Jordan and Salt Lake City Canal, and need not be
            part of a mixed use development. The associated site plan must also utilize the Storefront Conservation
            Overlay Zone (found in Section 21-14).
      26.   A mixed use development is only allowed within the Cairns Master Plan Area. These developments
            shall be regulated by Cairns Design Standards.
      27.   A maximum of one transitional housing facility may be allowed as a conditional use on Lot 3 of the Ark
            Subdivision.
      28.   A home-based microschool may be allowed only as a home occupation subject to the home
            occupations standards and qualifications. If not otherwise permitted in the zone, the home-based
            microschool may only be considered for existing legal nonconforming dwellings.
      29.   A micro-education entity is a permitted use subject to the special use standards and qualifications.
      30.   A brewery manufacturing license shall only be allowed if it is on the same premises as a sit-down
            restaurant; a stand-alone brewery manufacturing license is not permitted. Winery and distillery
            manufacturing licenses are not permitted.
      31.   The distance requirements between outlets and restaurants from community locations of the Alcoholic
            Beverage Control Act also apply (UCA 32B-1-202).
      32.   Additional requirements for bar establishments and restaurants. Any newly constructed bar
            establishment or restaurant shall meet the following requirements:
            (a)    Main entrance shall have an unimpeded line of sight from the street or public way.
            (b)    Lighting of the building at the entrance.
            (c)    Provide parking lot lighting. All lighting shall be shielded and directed downward to avoid light
                   spill beyond the property line.




                                                      Page 4 of 16
                                                            EXHIBIT “B”

CHAPTER 21-19. - SPECIAL DEVELOPMENT (SD) DISTRICTS

...

Sec. 21-19-3. - SD-MU MIXED USE—7800 S. 1300 E. and 9400 S. 1300 E.
(a) Purpose. The purpose of the Special Use District (Mixed Use) is to provide for mixed uses, such as professional
    office, multifamily and quasi-public.
(b) Uses Allowed.
      (1) Permitted Uses.
             a.     Alcoholic beverage single event permit.
             b.     Alcoholic beverage temporary beer permit.
             c.     Alcoholic beverage restaurant beer-only license. 1 & 2
             d.     Alcoholic beverage restaurant, limited service. 1 & 2
             e.     Alcoholic beverage restaurant, full service. 1 & 2
             f.     Alcoholic beverage brewery manufacturing license. 1 & 3
             g.     Athletic, tennis or health club.

       ...
       Explanatory Notes.
       1.         The alcoholic beverage restaurant and brewery manufacturing licenses are only allowed in the SD-MU
                  Mixed Use zone at 7800 S 1300 E; these uses are not allowed within SD-MU zone at 9400 S 1300 E. The
                  distance requirements between outlets and restaurants from community locations of the Alcoholic
                  Beverage Control Act also apply (UCA 32B-1-202).
       2.         Additional requirements for bar establishments and restaurants. Any newly constructed bar
                  establishment or restaurant shall meet the following requirements:
                   (a)   Main entrance shall have an unimpeded line of sight from the street or public way.
                   (b)   Lighting of the building at the entrance.
                   (c)   Provide parking lot lighting. All lighting shall be shielded and directed downward to avoid light
                         spill beyond the property line.
       3.         A brewery manufacturing license shall only be allowed if it is on the same premises as a sit-down
                  restaurant; a stand-alone brewery manufacturing license is not permitted. Winery and distillery
                  manufacturing licenses are not permitted.

...

Sec. 21-19-6A. SD/CC—Planned Center/Community Commercial Subdistrict.
...
(c)    Uses Allowed.
       (1)         Permitted Uses. A commercial center, community is allowed as a conditional use. Upon issuance of a
                   conditional use permit and completion of site plan review, the following uses shall be allowed as
                   permitted uses:



                                                             Page 5 of 16
                                                       EXHIBIT “B”

        a.         Arcade. 1
        b.         Athletic, tennis, or health club.
        c.         Automotive self-service station. 1
        d.         Automotive service station. 1
        e.         Business or financial services.
        f.         Commercial retail sales and services.
        g.         Commercial school.
        h.         Medical and health care offices.
        i.         Public service.
        j.         Recreation center. 1
        k.         Recreation, indoor.
        l.         Religious or cultural activity.
        m.         Restaurant.
        n.         Restaurant, drive-in. 1
        o.         Theater, concert hall. 2
        p.         Alcoholic beverage off-premises beer retailer license. 1
        q.         Alcoholic beverage restaurant beer-only license. 3 & 5
        r.         Alcoholic beverage restaurant, limited service license. 3 & 5
        s.         Alcoholic beverage restaurant, full service license. 3 & 5
        t.         Alcoholic beverage on-premises recreational beer retailer. 5
        u.         Alcoholic beverage brewery manufacturing license.4

   Explanatory Notes.
   1.        These uses require a conditional use permit if located within 250 feet of a residentially zoned district.
   2.        These uses are not permitted if located within 250 feet of a residentially zoned district.
   3. Additional requirements for bar establishments and restaurants. Any newly constructed bar
        establishment or restaurant shall meet the following requirements:
             (a)      Main entrance shall have an unimpeded line of sight from the street or public way.
             (b)      Lighting of the building at the entrance.
             (c)      Provide parking lot lighting. All lighting shall be shielded and directed downward to avoid light
                      spill beyond the property line.
   4.        A brewery manufacturing license shall only be allowed if it is on the same premises as a sit-down
             restaurant; a stand-alone brewery manufacturing license is not permitted. Winery and distillery
             manufacturing licenses are not permitted.
   5.        The distance requirements between outlets and restaurants from community locations of the
             Alcoholic Beverage Control Act also apply (UCA 32B-1-202).
(2) Conditional Uses. The following uses may be allowed but shall require a separate conditional use permit:
    a. Auto repair, minor.


                                                        Page 6 of 16
                                                       EXHIBIT “B”

            b. Commercial parking garage.
            c. Industry, light.
            d. Motel/hotel.
            e. Park and ride facilities.
            f. Public schools.
            g. Public utility station.
            h. Alcoholic beverage single event permit.
            i. Alcoholic beverage temporary beer event permit.
            j. Alcoholic beverage State liquor store. 5

...

Sec. 21-19-8. SD (Smart) District.

...
(3) Planned Center/Community Center District CC
...
      (c)     Uses Allowed. The following uses may be allowed but shall require a separate Conditional Use Permit.


              (1)   Alcoholic beverage bar establishment (bar) license 1 & 3
              (2)   Alcoholic beverage brewery manufacturing license 2
              (3)   Alcoholic beverage on-premises beer tavern license 1 & 3
              (4)   Alcoholic beverage off-premises beer retailer license
              (5)   Alcoholic beverage package agency license 3
              (6)   Alcoholic beverage, restaurant, beer-only license 1 & 3
              (7)   Alcoholic beverage, restaurant, full service license 1 & 3
              (8)   Alcoholic beverage, restaurant, limited service license 1 & 3
              (9)   Alcoholic beverage state liquor store 3
              (10) Any permitted use that is not integrated with the Planned Center or which occupies a separate
                   lot or its own street frontage.
       Explanatory Notes.
       1.    Additional requirements for bar establishments and restaurants. Any newly constructed bar
             establishment or restaurant shall meet the following requirements:
             (a)    Main entrance shall have an unimpeded line of sight from the street or public way.
             (b)    Lighting of the building at the entrance.
             (c)    Provide parking lot lighting. All lighting shall be shielded and directed downward to avoid light
                    spill beyond the property line.




                                                          Page 7 of 16
                                                      EXHIBIT “B”

       2.   A brewery manufacturing license shall only be allowed if it is on the same premises as a sit-down
            restaurant; a stand-alone brewery manufacturing license is not permitted. Winery and distillery
            manufacturing licenses are not permitted.
       3.   The distance requirements between outlets and restaurants from community locations of the Alcoholic
            Beverage Control Act also apply (UCA 32B-1-202).
...
(4) Planned Center/Neighborhood District CN
...
      (c)    Uses Allowed. The following uses may be allowed but shall require a separate Conditional Use Permit.
             (1)   Alcoholic beverage bar establishment (bar) license 1 & 3
             (2)   Alcoholic beverage brewery manufacturing license 2
             (3)   Alcoholic beverage on-premises beer tavern license 1 & 3
             (4)   Alcoholic beverage off-premises beer retailer license
             (5)   Alcoholic beverage package agency license 3
             (6)   Alcoholic beverage, restaurant, beer-only license 1 & 3
             (7)   Alcoholic beverage, restaurant, full service license 1 & 3
             (8)   Alcoholic beverage, restaurant, limited service license 1 & 3
             (9)   Alcoholic beverage state liquor store 3
             (10) Amusement Arcade
             (11) Commercial Parking Garage
             (12) Industry, Light
             (13) Public Utility Stations
             (14) Restaurant – Drive In
             (15) Any use that is not integrated with the Planned Center or which occupies a separate lot or its
                  own street frontage.
       Explanatory Notes.
       1.   Additional requirements for bar establishments and restaurants. Any newly constructed bar
            establishment or restaurant shall meet the following requirements:
            (a)    Main entrance shall have an unimpeded line of sight from the street or public way.
            (b)    Lighting of the building at the entrance.
            (c)    Provide parking lot lighting. All lighting shall be shielded and directed downward to avoid light
                   spill beyond the property line.
       2.   A brewery manufacturing license shall only be allowed if it is on the same premises as a sit-down
            restaurant; a stand-alone brewery manufacturing license is not permitted. Winery and distillery
            manufacturing licenses are not permitted.
       3.   The distance requirements between outlets and restaurants from community locations of the Alcoholic
            Beverage Control Act also apply (UCA 32B-1-202).

      ...


                                                        Page 8 of 16
                                                     EXHIBIT “B”

Sec. 21-19-14. SD(Harada)—7575 S. Union Park Avenue.
...
(b)   Uses Allowed.

...
      (2)   Conditional Uses.
            a.    Alcoholic beverage package agency license. 3
            b.    Alcoholic beverage on-premises recreational beer retailer license. 3
            c.    Alcoholic beverage reception center license. 3
            d.    Alcoholic beverage, restaurant, beer-only license. 1 & 3
            e.    Alcoholic beverage, restaurant, full service license. 1 & 3
            f.    Alcoholic beverage, restaurant, limited service license. 1 & 3
            g.    Alcoholic beverage brewery manufacturing license. 2
            h.    Assisted living facility, both limited and large capacity.

...
Explanatory Notes.
1.    Additional requirements for bar establishments and restaurants. Any newly constructed bar establishment or
      restaurant shall meet the following requirements:
            (a)   Main entrance shall have an unimpeded line of sight from the street or public way.
            (b)   Lighting of the building at the entrance.
            (c)   Provide parking lot lighting. All lighting shall be shielded and directed downward to avoid light
                  spill beyond the property line.
2.    A brewery manufacturing license shall only be allowed if it is on the same premises as a sit-down restaurant;
      a stand-alone brewery manufacturing license is not permitted. Winery and distillery manufacturing licenses
      are not permitted.
3.    The distance requirements between outlets and restaurants from community locations of the Alcoholic
      Beverage Control Act also apply (UCA 32B-1-202).

...

Sec. 21-19-16. SD (JHS)(MILLER)—Historic Jordan High School District—9400 South State
         Street.

...
(c)   Uses Allowed.
      (1)   A planned commercial center is allowed as a conditional use, and all uses in the SD(JHS)(MILLER) Zone
            are conditional uses. Upon completion of conditional use permit review, the Planning Commission may
            also approve a list of businesses consistent with the land uses listed within this section. This list of
            businesses will not require further review by the Planning Commission, but must comply with the
            original terms of the planned commercial center conditional use permit.



                                                       Page 9 of 16
                                               EXHIBIT “B”

(2)   Regardless of the size and ownership of individual parcels, a development plan must be submitted
      showing both existing and reasonable projected development on adjoining properties, determined
      through consultation with adjoining property owners. The intent of the above is to effectuate the end
      result of an overall planned development with appropriate cross-easements, consistent site standards,
      etc., even though properties may be individually owned.
(3)   For those land uses not listed, the use shall not be permitted.
      a.    Land Use Category.
            1.    Alcoholic beverage bar establishment (bar) license 1, 2, 3 & 4
            2.    Alcoholic beverage hotel license 3 & 4
            3.    Alcoholic beverage manufacturing license. 2 & 3
            4.    Alcoholic beverage off-premises beer retailer license 3
            5.    Alcoholic beverage on-premises banquet and catering license 3 & 4
            6.    Alcoholic beverage on-premises beer tavern license 1, 2, 3 & 4
            7.    Alcoholic beverage package agency license 3 & 4
            8.    Alcoholic beverage reception center license 3 & 4
            9.    Alcoholic beverage restaurant beer-only license. 1 & 4
            10.   Alcoholic beverage restaurant, limited service license. 1 & 4
            11.   Alcoholic beverage restaurant, full service license. 1 & 4
            12.   Alcoholic beverage on-premises recreational beer retailer license. 4
            13.   Alcoholic beverage single event permits.
            14.   Alcoholic beverage state liquor store. 3, 4 & 5
            15.   Alcoholic beverage temporary beer event permits.
            16.   Arcade entertainment.

...
Explanatory Notes.
1.    Additional requirements for bar establishments and restaurants. Any newly constructed bar
      establishment or restaurant shall meet the following requirements:
      (a)   Main entrance shall have an unimpeded line of sight from the street or public way.
      (b)   Lighting of the building at the entrance.
      (c)   Provide parking lot lighting. All lighting shall be shielded and directed downward to avoid light
            spill beyond the property line.
2.    Cannot be a stand-alone use. Must be on the same premises as a sit-down restaurant, retail complex,
      hotel, or stadium.
3.    Only allowed within the Cairns District (boundaries include 9000 South to the north, the TRAX rail to
      the east, 10600 South Street on the south and Interstate 15 to the west, as illustrated in “The Cairns
      Design Standards”).
4.    The distance requirements between outlets and restaurants from community locations of the Alcoholic
      Beverage Control Act also apply (UCA 32B-1-202).
5.    Requires a conditional use permit in accordance with this Title.


                                                Page 10 of 16
                                                        EXHIBIT “B”

      ...


Sec. 21-19- 18. - SD-CC—Timberline—9400 S. 900 E.

...
(c)   Uses Allowed. A commercial center, community is allowed as a conditional use upon completion of site plan
      review and issuance of the conditional use permit.
      (1)   Permitted Uses.
            a.       Alcoholic beverage off-premises beer retailer license.
            b.       Alcoholic beverage on-premises recreational beer retailer. 3
            c.       Alcoholic beverage restaurant beer-only license. 1 & 3
            d.       Alcoholic beverage restaurant, full service license. 1 & 3
            e.       Alcoholic beverage restaurant, limited service license. 1 & 3
            f.       Alcoholic beverage brewery manufacturing license. 2
            g.       Animal kennel, veterinary offices.

      ...
      Explanatory Notes.
      1.         Additional requirements for bar establishments and restaurants. Any newly constructed bar
                 establishment or restaurant shall meet the following requirements:
            (a)      Main entrance shall have an unimpeded line of sight from the street or public way.
            (b)      Lighting of the building at the entrance.
            (c)      Provide parking lot lighting. All lighting shall be shielded and directed downward to avoid light
                     spill beyond the property line.
      2.    A brewery manufacturing license shall only be allowed if it is on the same premises as a sit-down
            restaurant; a stand-alone brewery manufacturing license is not permitted. Winery and distillery
            manufacturing licenses are not permitted.
      3.    The distance requirements between outlets and restaurants from community locations of the
            Alcoholic Beverage Control Act also apply (UCA 32B-1-202).


...
Sec. 21-19-21. - Special District Mixed Use—SD-X—Ski Connect—9200 S. 1000 E.

...
(c)   Uses Allowed.
      (1)   Matrix Explanation. The matrix below lists all permitted uses within the SD(X) Zone. The letters "P,"
            "C," "S," or "N" shall mean "Permitted," "Conditional," "Special Use," or "Not Permitted," respectively.
            For those letters which are followed by a slash "/" the second letter shall indicate those location
            restrictions for business located within 250 feet of a residential district (unless bisected by a major



                                                          Page 11 of 16
                                                      EXHIBIT “B”

             arterial road as determined by the Sandy City Transportation Engineer in the Transportation Element of
             the Sandy City General Plan).
                                                    Land Uses in SD(X) Zone

  Accessory apartments                                                                              N
  Accessory structure (unless otherwise specified)                                                  C
  Agriculture                                                                                       N
  Alcohol or tobacco specialty store                                                                N
  Alcoholic beverage bar establishment (equity) license 1 & 3                                       N
  Alcoholic beverage bar establishment (fraternal) license 1 & 3                                    N
  Alcoholic beverage bar establishment (bar) license 1 & 3                                          N
  Alcoholic beverage hotel license 3                                                                N
  Alcoholic beverage brewery manufacturing license 2                                                P
  Alcoholic beverage off-premises beer retailer license                                             P
  Alcoholic beverage on-premises banquet and catering license 3                                     N
  Alcoholic beverage on-premises beer tavern license 1 & 3                                          N
  Alcoholic beverage on-premises recreational beer retailer license 3                               C
  Alcoholic beverage package agency license 3                                                       N
  Alcoholic beverage reception center license 3                                                     C
  Alcoholic beverage resort license 3                                                               N
  Alcoholic beverage, restaurant, beer-only license 1 & 3                                           P
  Alcoholic beverage, restaurant, full service license 1 & 3                                        P
  Alcoholic beverage, restaurant, limited service license 1 & 3                                     P
  Alcoholic beverage single event permits                                                           C
  Alcoholic beverage state liquor store 3                                                           N
  Alcoholic beverage temporary beer event permits                                                   C

...
      Explanatory Notes.
      1.   Additional requirements for bar establishments and restaurants. Any newly constructed bar
           establishment or restaurant shall meet the following requirements:
           (a) Main entrance shall have an unimpeded line of sight from the street or public way.
           (b) Lighting of the building at the entrance.
           (c) Provide parking lot lighting. All lighting shall be shielded and directed downward to avoid light spill
               beyond the property line.
      2.   A brewery manufacturing license shall only be allowed if it is on the same premises as a sit-down
           restaurant; a stand-alone brewery manufacturing license is not permitted. Winery and distillery
           manufacturing licenses are not permitted.
      3.   The distance requirements between outlets and restaurants from community locations of the Alcoholic
           Beverage Control Act also apply (UCA 32B-1-202).




                                                       Page 12 of 16
                                                       EXHIBIT “B”

...

Sec. 21-19-24. - SD(PO)(Union Heights) Professional Office District—7700 S. 1300 E.

...
(c)     Uses Allowed.
        ...
        (2)     The matrix below lists all permitted uses within the PO and CvC Subdistricts of the SD(PO)(Union
                Heights) commercial zone. The letters "P," "C," or "N" shall mean "Permitted," "Conditional," or "Not
                Permitted," respectively.

      Land Use                                                    PO Subdistrict               CvC Subdistrict
      Alcoholic beverage brewery manufacturing                    C                            C
      license 2
      Alcoholic beverage off-premises beer retailer               N                            P
      license
      Alcoholic beverage, restaurant, beer-only license.          C                            C
      1&3

      Alcoholic beverage, restaurant, limited service             C                            C
      license. 1 & 3
      Alcoholic beverage, restaurant, full service                C                            C
      license. 1 & 3
      Alcoholic beverage reception center license 3               N                            C
      Alcoholic beverage single event permits                     C                            C
      Alcoholic beverage temporary beer event permit              C                            C
      ...
       Explanatory Notes.
       1.     Additional requirements for bar establishments and restaurants. Any newly constructed bar
              establishment or restaurant shall meet the following requirements:
                (a)   Main entrance shall have an unimpeded line of sight from the street or public way.
                (b)   Lighting of the building at the entrance.
                (c)   Provide parking lot lighting. All lighting shall be shielded and directed downward to avoid light
                      spill beyond the property line.
       2.     A brewery manufacturing license shall only be allowed if it is on the same premises as a sit-down
              restaurant; a stand-alone brewery manufacturing license is not permitted. Winery and distillery
              manufacturing licenses are not permitted.
       3.     The distance requirements between outlets and restaurants from community locations of the Alcoholic
              Beverage Control Act also apply (UCA 32B-1-202).




                                                         Page 13 of 16
                                                 EXHIBIT “B”


CHAPTER 21-23. - COMMERCIAL, OFFICE, INDUSTRIAL, AND TRANSIT CORRIDOR
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS

...
Sec. 21-23-16. Alcoholic Beverages; Distance Requirements.
The distance requirements between outlets and restaurants from community locations shall be governed by the
Title 32B, Alcoholic Beverage Control Act (UCA 32B-1-202).



(LDC 2008, § 15A-23-16; Ord. No. 21-08, § 1(Exh. A), 3-23-2021)




                                                   Page 14 of 16
                                                   EXHIBIT “B”

CHAPTER 21-37. – DEFINITIONS

...
Sec. 21-37-2. "A" Definitions.
...
(12) Alcoholic beverage establishments require a license from Sandy City in accordance with Title 15 of this Code,
     and the Utah Department of Alcoholic Beverage Services. Unless otherwise updated in Utah Code, Title 32B,
     Alcoholic Beverage Control Act, and for purposes of this Title, alcoholic beverage establishments mean:
      a.   Bar establishment, equity. An equity bar establishment license allows the storage, sale, service, and
           consumption of alcoholic beverages on the premises that is owned by its members and run by a board
           of directors elected by the members, such as a country club, and which operates under an equity
           license issued by the Utah Department of Alcoholic Beverage Services. Food must be available for
           customers, but there is no required percentage of food sales.
      b.   Bar establishment, fraternal. A fraternal bar establishment license allows the storage, sale, service, and
           consumption of alcoholic beverages on the premises, such as a mutual benefit or patriotic association
           that is organized under a lodge system, and which operates a fraternal license issued by the Utah
           Department of Alcoholic Beverage Services. Food must be available for customers, but there is no
           required percentage of food sales.
      c.   Bar Establishment, bar. A bar license allows for the storage, sale, service, and consumption of alcoholic
           beverages on the premises of a bar (a social drinking establishment), which operates under a bar
           establishment license issued by the Utah Department of Beverage Services. Food must be available for
           customers, but there is no required percentage of food sales.
      d.   Hotel license. Available on a limited basis from the Utah Department of Alcoholic Beverage Services
           consisting of a general license and three or more sublicenses. One sublicense must be a restaurant
           license or bar establishment, and one must be an on-premises banquet license. Hotels with more than
           one bar establishment must apply for separate sublicenses and may not combine multiple bar
           establishments into one sublicense. Licenses are subject to size and location restrictions as described
           by the Utah Department of Beverage Services.
      e.   Manufacturing license. Manufacturing licenses include brewery, distillery, and winery licenses. A
           brewery license is required to manufacture, brew, store, transport, or export beer and heavy beer. A
           distillery license is required to manufacture, store, transport, import or export liquor. A winery license
           is required to manufacture, store, transport, import and export wines.
      f.   Off-premises beer retailer license. An off-premises beer retailer means an establishment licensed to sell
           beer, with a maximum of five percent by volume, in original containers for consumption off the
           premises.
      g.   On-premises banquet and catering license. An on-premises banquet and catering license is required for
           the storage, sale, service, and consumption of liquor, wine, heavy beer, or beer for contracted banquet
           activities on the premises of a hotel, resort facility, sports center, or convention center. It also allows
           for room service in hotels and resorts.
      h.   On-premises beer tavern license. An on-premises beer tavern license shall entitle the licensee to sell
           beer for consumption on the licensed premises in open containers and on draft not exceeding two
           liters, where the revenue from the sale of beer exceeds the revenue of the sale of food.
      i.   On-premises recreational beer retailer license. An on-premises recreational beer retailer license is
           required for the sale of beer at retail for on-premises consumption for establishments that are tied to a
           "recreational amenity," as defined by the Utah Department of Beverage Services. At least 70 percent of



                                                    Page 15 of 16
                                                  EXHIBIT “B”

           the sales at a recreational facility must be from food or may be from gross revenues directly related to
           the recreational amenity.
      j.   Package agency. A retail liquor location operated under a contractual agreement with the Department
           of Alcoholic Beverage Services, by a person other than the State, who is authorized by the Utah
           Alcoholic Beverage Services Commission to sell packaged liquor for consumption off the premises of
           the agency.
      k.   Reception center license. A reception center license is required for the storage, sale, service, and
           consumption of liquor, wine, heavy beer, and beer for banquet or event functions on the premises of a
           reception center which must be at least 5,000 square feet and have culinary facilities on the premises
           or under the control of the center that are adequate to prepare full meals. A reception center’s
           primary purpose must be leasing its facility to a third party for the third party's event. No more than 30
           percent of annual gross receipts may be from the sale of alcohol.
      l.   Resort license. Resort licenses are required for the storage, sale, service, and consumption of alcoholic
           beverages on the premises of a resort building that has at least 150 dwelling or lodging
           accommodations (50 percent of which must be owned by a person other than the resort licensee), and
           the building must be at least 400,000 square feet. The resort building must be affiliated with a ski area
           that abuts the resort building premises. Available on a limited basis from the Utah Department of
           Alcoholic Beverage Services.
      m.   Restaurant, beer only license. A beer-only restaurant license is required for storage, sale, service, and
           consumption of beer (but not heavy beer) on the premises of a restaurant that is engaged primarily in
           serving meals to the general public. Beer may be purchased in conjunction with an order for food that
           is prepared, sold and served at the restaurant. Each restaurant must maintain at least 70 percent of its
           total restaurant business from the sale of food.
      n.   Restaurant, full service license. Restaurant liquor licenses are required for the storage, sale, service,
           and consumption of beer, heavy beer, wich and liquor beverages on the premises of a restaurant that
           is engaged primarily in serving meals to the general public. Alcoholic beverages may be purchased in
           conjunction with an order for food that is prepared, sold, and served at the restaurant. Each restaurant
           must maintain at least 70 percent of its total restaurant business from the sale of food.
      o.   Restaurant, limited service license. Limited service restaurant liquor licenses are required for the
           storage, sale, service, and consumption of wine, heavy beer, and beer on the premises of a restaurant
           that is engaged primarily in serving meals to the general public. Alcoholic beverages may be purchased
           in conjunction with an order for food that is prepared, sold and served at the restaurant. Each
           restaurant must maintain at least 70 percent of its total restaurant business from the sale of food.
      p.   Single event permits. A single event license allows the licensee to sell and allows the on-premises
           consumption of any alcohol (including beer) at a temporary event. Multiple single event permits may
           be obtained per calendar year and is limited to the number of events permitted by the Utah
           Department of Alcoholic Beverage Services.
      q.   State liquor store. A facility for the sale of package liquor that is located on the premises owned or
           leased by the State and is operated by a State employee. The term "State liquor store" does not include
           a package agency, a licensee, or a permittee.
      r.   Temporary beer event permits. Temporary beer event permits allow the licensee to sell beer for on-
           premises consumption at a temporary event. Multiple temporary beer event permits may be obtained
           per calendar year and is limited to the number of events permitted by the Utah Department of
           Alcoholic Beverage Services.
...




                                                   Page 16 of 16
