                                                                                           10000 South Centennial

                                        Sandy City                                         Parkway Suite 231
                                                                                           Sandy, UT 84070

                                       Council Office                                      O| 801-568-7141
                                                                                           Sandy.Utah.Gov




                                              MEMORANDUM

                                              February 4, 2025

To:                City Council Members

CC:                Dustin Fratto, Council Executive Director

From:              Aaron Dekeyzer, Council Member At-large

Subject:           First Reading: Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU) Code Amendments



Background and Proposal

In the summer of 2024, in combination with Council Member D’Sousa I began exploring amendments to
our municipal code to expand and improve the city ordinance on external accessory dwelling units (E-
ADUs). However, following conversations with Council and City staff I decided to wait to propose my
amendments until after the adoption of the General Plan.

I believe that E-ADUs are part of the solution to the affordable housing crisis. Sandy residents are ready
to expand their use (General Plan surveying suggests approx. 79% support on this issue), and the
recently adopted General Plan explicitly calls for them. There are many pros to expanding the allowance
of E-ADU’s, some of which include:

      •    Increase opportunities for multi-generational living and for residents to age in place.
      •    Result in new and diverse housing options in established neighborhoods.
      •    Produce supplemental income for homeowners, supporting homeownership.
      •    Add additional and potentially affordable housing options.
      •    Makes efficient use of existing public infrastructure.
      •    Implements adopted strategy of the Moderate-Income Housing Plan.

In the remainder of this proposal, you’ll find a synopsis of what our current code allows, what the
general plan says about ADUs, and my proposed process to work towards expanding E-ADUs in Sandy.

What does our existing code allow?

Currently, the City allows for several different types of Accessory Living Areas: Extended Living Areas
(second kitchen), Accessory Apartments (known as Internal Accessory Dwelling Units (I-ADUs)), and
Guesthouses (for non-paying short-term guests). I-ADUs are allowed in all residential zones, as is
mandated by the Utah Code; however, Sandy does not currently allow E-ADUs, except for small
guesthouses (≤400 s.f.) on large lots (≥20,000 s.f.) that may only be used by the homeowner’s family or
non-paying guests.
What does the General Plan say about ADUs?

ADU’s are an important part of the General Plan and are addressed in Sections 1, 2, 3, 7, and 8. Below,
I’ve outlined what each of these sections says about ADU’s.

General Plan Section 1 – Overview
   • Key Strategies
           o Strengthen Neighborhoods
                    Provide for ongoing vibrancy of neighborhoods through selective infill strategies
                        including external and internal Accessory Dwelling Units

General Plan Section 2 – Livability
   • Moderate-Income Housing Goals: Sandy’s 2024 Moderate Income Strategies include (p. L4):
           o State Strategy E. “Create or allow for, and reduce regulations related to, accessory
               dwelling units in residential zones.”
           o “The General Plan update process identified the following prioritized potential
               strategies:
                    Encourage internal ADU’s
                    Allow for external ADU’s
           o Implementation Plan (p. L29)
                    Internal ADU’s allowed. City Council considering legislation to allow external
                        ADU’s
                    6 plans for implementation are included in the table.

    •   Goals, objectives, policies, and actions:
           o Goal – Sandy Includes a wide variety of housing types appropriate and attainable for a
                diversity of households (p. L15)
                     Objective – External and internal accessory dwelling units are allowed on lots of
                         adequate size and configuration
                             • Policies
                                      o External ADU regulations establish minimum requirements to
                                          mitigate impacts on surrounding properties including parking,
                                          setbacks, and privacy
                                      o ADUs are required to be subordinate to the primary structure as
                                          measured by building height, footprint, and massing
                                      o Owner occupancy of one of the units on the property including
                                          an ADU is required
           o Goal – Sandy’s neighborhoods in stasis are stable and enduring (p. L16)
                     Objective – Tax burden is minimized through the continued wise use of existing
                         assets and funds
                             • Policies
                                      o Internal and external ADU’s are allowed where appropriate

    •   What the Community Said (p. L26)
          o In addition, the community and the Housing Technical Committee indicated support for
               the following approaches to affordable housing:
                    Accessory Dwelling Units – External and Internal
(General Plan Section 2 – Livability (Continued))
   • Key Strategies
            o Strengthen Neighborhoods (p. L28)
                     Sandy’s MIH strategies represent opportunities to attract new investment and
                        new families. The strategies include internal and external ADUs, opportunities
                        to reduce lot size and add one or more units on very large lots, as well as
                        opportunities to create new neighborhoods adjacent to existing housing.

General Plan Section 3 – Community
   • Goals, objectives, policies, and actions:
           o Goal - Sandy encourages opportunities for senior citizens to participate in all aspects of
               civic life
                     Objective - Sandy’s neighborhoods and housing types include opportunities for
                          seniors to relocate to senior housing within the community
                              • Policies
                                       o Neighborhoods in stasis include opportunities for internal and
                                           external ADUs

Section 7 – Targeted Growth Plan
    • ADU’s are included as one of the options on the dashboard under Housing Mix (Dwelling Units)
        for each land use type
    • ADU’s are included under the projected growth section (p.T5)
    • ADU’s are included as a housing type on the Land Use Mix description (p. T13)

Section 8 – Implementation Plan
    • The implementation plan includes the following as “short term” goals related to ADU’s
             o External ADU regulations establish minimum requirements to mitigate impacts on
                surrounding properties including parking, setbacks, and privacy
             o External ADU regulations establish minimum requirements to mitigate impacts on
                surrounding properties including parking, setbacks, and privacy
             o Owner occupancy of one of the units on the property including an ADU is required

    •   The following as “Medium Term”
            o Internal and external ADUs are allowed where appropriate
            o Neighborhoods in stasis include opportunities for internal and external ADUs
My Proposal

In alignment with the recently adopted general plan, I propose that the Council provide its direction to
city staff to begin drafting amendments to the Sandy Municipal Code with the intention of permitting
external accessory dwelling units in Sandy City. These amendments should be carefully considered, align
with the General Plan, include regulations recommended by staff and the Planning Commission, and
include regulations for the following:

    •   An E-ADU should not be a second full home on a lot, but a clearly subordinate structure in both
        size and living area to that of the primary dwelling.
    •   Any property with an E-ADU should maintain the look and character of a single-family property.
    •   Either the primary dwelling or the E-ADU should be owner occupied.
    •   The design of the E-ADU should be compatible with that of the main dwelling.
    •   Limit the height and location of living space within a detached structure to help maintain the
        privacy of surrounding neighbors.
    •   Limit habitable space and/or square footage based upon lot size and/or available buildable lot
        acreage.
    •   Restrict any new utility connections.
    •   Ensure adequate provisions for placement, setback, height, scale, design, and use are included
    •   Provide adequate off-street parking.
    •   Require permanent foundation to prohibit mobile/portable units.
    •   Limit to one ADU (whether internal or external) per lot.
    •   Considerations for privacy (e.g. exterior window placement, exterior lighting, upper-level
        decks/balconies, etc.).
    •   o Establish appropriate standards for conversion of existing external accessory structures to E-
        ADUs.

With the support of the Council, I would like City staff to begin the code amendment process by drafting
the necessary amendments, presenting them to the Planning Commission for their review and
recommendation, and finally presenting them to the Council for our consideration and possible
adoption.

Conclusion

At this time, I am looking for feedback from my colleagues on the City Council. If the Council has
additional regulations that you’d like to ensure get included in my final bulleted list, please tell me this
evening. Once I’ve received your feedback, I’ll bring this item back for a second reading. At that time,
I’ll ask the Council to provide formal directions for staff to move forward with the code amendment
process.
Background Reference Articles

Cities on the Wasatch Front are cutting red tape to allow more houses in backyards (by Samantha
Hawkins, June 10, 2024; Building Salt Lake online magazine)
Expanding ADU Development and Occupancy: Solutions for Removing Local Barriers to ADU
Construction (published by American Planning Association in collaboration with AARP, May, 2023)
Accessory Dwelling Units Model State Act and Local Ordinance (published by APA and AARP, 2000)
Accessory Dwelling Units (by American Planning Association, Knowledgebase Collection)
