                                      S A N DY C I T Y C O M M U N I T Y D E V E L O P M E N T
                                                                                                                                       JAMES SORENSEN
                                                                                                                                    COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
                                                                                                                                          DIRECTOR

                                                                                                                                        MONICA ZOLTANSKI
                                                                                                                                            MAYOR

                                                                                                                                         SHANE E. PACE
                                                                                                                                      CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE
                                                                                                                                             OFFICER




                                Staff Report Memorandum
                                                      December 4, 2025


 To:             City Council via Planning Commission
 From:           Community Development Department
 Subject:        Amendments to Title 21 of the Land Development Code                                                          CA09232025-0007044
                 related to Automall Zone Land Use Matrix


 Public Hearing Notice:             This item has been noticed on public websites, sent to affected entities and
                                    posted in three public locations at least 10 days prior to the Public Hearing.


Request
 On behalf of Sandy City, the Community Development Department is proposing to amend a portion of Title 21, Chapter
 8 - Land Uses in the Commercial, Office, Industrial, Office, Industrial, Mixed Use, Transit Corridor, and Research and
 Development District of the Sandy Municipal Code. The purpose of the code amendment is to revise the list of allowed
 uses that are appropriate for the purpose of the Automall Zone, which is to establish car dealerships. Several stand-alone uses
 that are currently permitted or conditional would not be allowed unless they are associated with a car dealership as an
 ancillary use.

 The specific amendments to the Land Development Code are included as Exhibit “A” (red-lined version) and Exhibit “B”
 (clean version).

Background
 The original Automall Master Plan and land use regulations were first adopted in 1990. There have been some minor changes
 over the years to address various issues or situations that have arisen as this unique area has evolved. Over the past few years
 we’ve seen dealerships leave the Automall for larger properties, several dealerships have changed ownership, and new brands
 occupied the vacant buildings. Staff has received a few proposals and requests over the past few months to operate uses within
 the dealership area of the Automall Zone that did not have an automotive dealership associated with the proposed use. This
 raised a concern about whether these other land uses would begin to diminish and compete with the stated purpose of the
 Automall Zone, which is to establish car dealerships and provide a clear separation of uses within the sub-districts of the
 Automall Zone. These include the Commercial sub-district and Dealership sub-district of the Automall zone. This request
 is being processed with the support of the Southtowne Automall Dealers Association (see Exhibit “C”).

 The intent of these amendments is to strengthen the Southtowne Automall by clarifying the allowed uses shown in the land
 use matrix within the Automall Zone and align them with stated purpose of the subdistricts. Several stand-alone uses that
 are currently permitted or conditional within the Dealership sub-district are proposed to no longer be allowed unless they
 are associated with a car dealership as an ancillary use. However, those disallowed uses would still be allowed in the

     10000 Centennial Parkway        | S a nd y , U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   | p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   | f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   | s a n d y . u t a h . go v
Automall Zone Land Use Matrix Code Amendment – CA09232025-0007044                                                                                           Page 2


 Commercial sub-district.

                                                  Property Case History
        Case Number                                                                 Case Summary
                                    This established the Automall Zone District and associated standards for the
           CA #90-37
                                    new zone district.
        CODE-3-15-4227              This amendment made changes to the Automall Development standards in
                                    response to the City’s update to the Automall Master Plan.
                                    This amendment altered the required front setbacks for parking structures
       CODE-04-18-5391
                                    within the Automall District.

Public Notice and Outreach
 The city issued notice of the public hearing for the proposed code amendments on public websites, mailed notice to affected
 entities and posted in three public locations at least 10 days prior to the Planning Commission public hearing in accordance
 with the Land Development Code Sec. 21-36-1 and the Utah State Code § 10-9a-205.

Analysis
 Many different uses are currently allowed within
 the Automall District and some of those land uses
 need to be revised to better align to the purpose of
 the dealership sub-district. Some uses have been
 identified as appropriate under certain conditions
 such as ancillary components to an automotive
 dealership, but not appropriate as a stand-alone
 land use. Other land uses have been determined as
 not appropriate at all within the zone, while other
 land uses should be allowed as permitted uses.

 The following land uses would be allowed in the Dealership Sub-District if they are ancillary to an Automotive Dealership
 (listed as permitted with a superscript note 33 (P33)):
               All-terrain vehicles (ATV) sales and service
               Automotive self-service station
               Automotive service and repair—major
               Automotive service and repair—minor
               Automotive service station, non-mechanical
               Automotive service station
               Car wash
               Parking, structure/terrace
               Parking, underground

 The following land uses would no longer be allowed in the Dealership Sub-District (listed as not permitted (N):
             Ancillary commercial as part of a mixed use building
             Arcade
             Auto, light trucks, RV rental and leasing agencies
             Business or financial services

      10000 Centennial Parkway       | S a nd y , U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   | p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   | f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   | s a n d y . u t a h . go v
Automall Zone Land Use Matrix Code Amendment – CA09232025-0007044                                                                                            Page 3


                Commercial, parking
                Equipment sales and services
                Medical and health care offices
                Professional office
                Public Service
                School, commercial
                School, private or quasi-public

 With these changes, the land uses allowed in the zone will better align the objective of the Automall district.

Non-Conforming Uses
 This code amendment would not create legal non-conforming situations.

Land Development Code Purpose Compliance
 The Sandy City Land Development Code in 21-1-3 lists the criteria explaining the intent and purpose of the Ordinance.
 The purpose is:
       21-1-3 Purpose
       This Code is adopted to implement Sandy City’s General Plan and to promote public health, safety, convenience,
       aesthetics, welfare; efficient use of land; sustainable land use and building practices; transportation options and
       accessibility; crime prevention; timely citizen involvement in land use decision making; and efficiency in development
       review and land use administration. Specifically, this Code is established to promote the following purposes:
       1. General
          a. To facilitate the orderly growth and development of Sandy City.
          b. To facilitate adequate provision for transportation, water, sewage, schools, parks, and other public
             requirements.
          c. To stabilize property values.
          d. To enhance the economic well-being of Sandy City and its inhabitants.
       2. Implementation of General Plan
          To coordinate and ensure the implementation of the City’s General Plan through effective execution of
          development review requirements, adequate facility and services review and other goals, policies, or programs
          contained in the General Plan.
       3. Comprehensive, Consistent and Equitable Regulations
          To establish a system of fair, comprehensive, consistent and equitable regulations, standards and procedures for
          review and approval of all proposed land development within the City.
       4. Efficiently and Effectively Managed Procedures
          a. To promote fair procedures that are efficient and effective in terms of time and expense.
          b. To be effective and responsive in terms of the allocation of authority and delegation of powers and duties
               among ministerial, appointed, and elected officials.
          c. To foster a positive customer service attitude and to respect the rights of all applicants and affected citizens.

 The proposed code amendment is consistent with the purpose of the Land Development Code because the proposal
 promotes efficient use of the land. The proposed Code Amendment would facilitate the orderly growth and development of
 Sandy City.

      10000 Centennial Parkway        | S a nd y , U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   | p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   | f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   | s a n d y . u t a h . go v
Automall Zone Land Use Matrix Code Amendment – CA09232025-0007044                                                                                          Page 4


General Plan Compliance
 The General Plan encourages appropriate development standards for all uses and zoning categories within Sandy City. This
 code amendment would further that goal and objective. The proposed Code Amendment will facilitate the orderly growth
 and development of Sandy City.

Recommendation
 Staff recommends that the Planning Commission forward a positive recommendation to the City Council to amend Title
 21 of the Sandy Municipal Code related to land uses in the Automall zoning district as shown in Exhibit “A”, based on the
 following findings:

Findings:

   1. The City Council may amend land use ordinances consistent with the purposes of the Sandy Land Development
      Code, the Sandy City General Plan, and the Utah Code, Municipal Land Use, Development, and Management Act
      per Title 21 Chapter 5 of the Sandy Municipal Code.
   2. The proposal is reviewed by the Planning Commission and City Council in accordance with the requirements of Title
      21 Chapter 5 of the Sandy Municipal Code.
   3. The proposal complies with the purpose of the Land Development Code under Section 21-1-03 by promoting the
      public health, safety and welfare; ensuring consistent and equitable standards; establishing fair procedures that are
      efficient and effective in terms of time and expense; and by facilitating the orderly growth and development of Sandy
      City.
   4. The proposal complies with the Goals and Policies of the General Plan by establishing appropriate development
      standards for all uses and zoning categories within Sandy City and Compliance with the Goals and by encouraging a
      mixture of land use types where appropriate.

 Planner:




 Mike Wilcox
 Planning Director

File Name: S:\USERS\PLN\STAFFRPT\2025\CA09232025-0007044 - AUTOMALL LAND USE MATRIX\STAFF
REPORT\STAFF REPORT.DOCX




      10000 Centennial Parkway      | S a nd y , U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   | p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   | f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   | s a n d y . u t a h . go v
