                                   Exhibit "A"




                     Council Meetings

           RULES AND
                                        T
                          AF
          PROCEDURES
                R
               D



Updated: May, 2024
                                                                 Exhibit "A"




                                       Sandy City Council
                                  LegislaƟve Policies and Procedures

SUBJECT: Rules of Procedure
BACKGROUND:
State law § 10-3-606 requires the City Council to adopt rules of order and procedure governing
and prescribing:

    a) parliamentary order and procedure;
    b) ethical behavior; and
    c) civil discourse.

 The City Council is further required to:

    a) conduct public meetings in accordance with the adopted rules of order and procedure;
    b) make the rules of order and procedure available to the public; at each meeting of the
       municipal legislative body; and on the City website.




                                                                       T
 POLICY:
                                              AF
    1. The “Sandy City Guidelines, Conduct of Official Council Meetings” adopted via Resolution
       #07-66C are hereby repealed.
    2. Sandy City Council Rules of Procedure amended and re-adopted on February 27, 2024

    3. The Sandy City Council Rules of Order and Procedure are described as follows:
                  R
                 D



                                                                                                  2
                                                               Exhibit "A"




                                      Sandy City Council
                                LegislaƟve Policies and Procedures


Parliamentary Order and Procedure, Ethical Behavior, and Civil Discourse

    1. Standard Order of Business

            a) The standard order of business for regularly scheduled meetings of the City
               Council is as follows. The City Council may vote to amend the standard order of
               business from time to time based on the actual content of each meeting. The
               Council will not entertain new items after 11 PM unless agreed to by a majority
               of the Members.

            b) Dependent on the annual meeting schedule, the City Council generally meets each
               Tuesday at 5:15 PM.




                                                                     T
            c) All resolutions and ordinances shall be presented to the council during at least two
               separate council meetings. At the first meeting the resolution or ordinance shall be
               presented as a non-voting informational item. At the second meeting the
               resolution or ordinance shall be presented as either a consent calendar, public
                                            AF
               hearing, or council voting item.

              5:15 PM Council Meeting

              Work Session
                  A. At their discretion the Council Chairperson may include a work session on
                      the City Council agenda.
                      1.      Work sessions may be held either before or after the Business
                R
                              Session.
                      2.      Work sessions may be held at alternative locations as needed.             Formatted: Font: 11.5 pt, Ligatures: None
                      3.      Work sessions should not be held at every meeting but instead
                              should be held on an as needed basis.
                      4.      Items suitable for work sessions are those that might benefit from:
               D

                                 •      A less formal setting that encourages more open                 Formatted: Font: 11.5 pt, Ligatures: None
                                        dialogue; or                                                    Formatted: Font: 11.5 pt, Ligatures: None
                                 •      Collaborative problem solving; or
                                 •      Preliminary exploration before formal action; or
                                 •      Some other improvement to council deliberations.                Formatted: Font: 11.5 pt, Ligatures: None
                                                                                                        Formatted: List Paragraph, Bulleted + Level: 5 +
              Business Session
                                                                                                        Aligned at: 2.24" + Indent at: 2.74"
              Opening Remarks/Prayer/Pledge of Allegiance
                   A.B. Council Meeting Items (at the discretion of the Chairperson, the order of
                        items within this category may be altered from time to time to
                        accommodate presenters and other special circumstances).
                       1.      Special Recognition
                       2.      Informational Items (briefings, training opportunities, discussion

                                                                                                    3
                                       Exhibit "A"




              Sandy City Council
        LegislaƟve Policies and Procedures

       items, first readings, etc.)
  3.   Consent Calendar
  4.   Public Hearings (The Council will accept written and oral citizen
       comment on each public hearing item according to the procedure
       described in paragraph B below_
  5.   Council Voting items (The Council will accept written and oral
       citizen comment on each council voting item according to the
       procedure described in paragraph B below)
B.C.        Citizen Comment
  1.   Introduction. The City Council welcomes written and oral citizen
       comment on any City subjects at regular meetings. Oral comment
       will be taken:
          • During the General Citizen Comment Period. Oral public
               comment will be taken on city subjects, including council
               informational and voting items listed on the meeting agenda.




                                              T
          • During Public Hearings. Oral public comment on a public
               hearing item shall be held until the public hearing is opened.
          • During council voting items. Oral comment on every council
               voting item shall be accepted during the general citizen
                    AF
               comment period and during a separate comment period for
               each council voting item.
  2.   Start times:
          • The General Citizen Comment period will begin no earlier
               than 6:00 PM. The Council will aim to open the oral General
               Citizen Comment Period at 6:00 PM, or at the next available
               transition between agenda items thereafter. During meetings
               that include a work session before the business session, the
 R
               General Citizen Comment Period shall not begin until after
               the conclusion of the work session.
          • The Council will open oral public comment on each public
               hearing item and each council voting item when those items
               are called.
D

  3.   Speakers may comment in-person or remotely. Each speaker is
       allowed three minutes to address the Council. The Chair may
       extend the time for Citizen Comment at his or her discretion.
       Commenters are requested to provide their city of residence to the
       Council for the public record.
  4.   Citizen comments made during public hearings and council voting
       items shall comply with the City Council policy entitled Public
       Hearings, Council Voting Items, and Citizen Comments.
  5.   The Council welcomes written comments. Citizens may submit a
       written comment on City subjects to the Council by emailing
       CitizenComment@sandy.utah.gov.




                                                                           4
                                                               Exhibit "A"




                                     Sandy City Council
                                LegislaƟve Policies and Procedures

                   C.D.        Standing Reports (not timed certain)
                          1.   Agenda Planning Calendar Review & Council Director Report
                          2.   Council Member Business
                          3.   Mayor’s Report
                          4.   Chief Administrative Officer Report
                          5.   Other Standing Reports as needed


          d) Council Member Business, the Mayor’s report, and the Chief Administrative
             Officer’s report are informational in nature. These reports may include such items
             as updates from committee meetings, summaries of significant City events,
             recognition proposals, and recommendations for future discussion items. No
             action except discussion can occur on such an item at the meeting in which it is
             introduced; it must be added to a future agenda as a voting item before formal




                                                                     T
             Council action can occur.

          e) The Council may deviate from the standard order of business as necessary.
                                           AF
          f) Items not completed during the Council Meeting portion of the agenda should
             be rescheduled at the next available Council Meeting as appropriate.

    2. Motions

Main Motion

          a) A motion is a formal proposal by a Member of the City Council, in a
               R
             meeting, that the Council take certain action.


          b) After a motion has been seconded, another Member of the Council may
              D

             offer a friendly amendment to the original motion maker which he or she,
             together with the seconder of the motion, may accept or reject. Friendly
             amendments are informal and are not counted toward motions to amend.

Motion to Amend

          c) A motion to amend which has been seconded and receives a majority vote of
             the Members present amends the main motion.

                  i.   A Motion to Amend must be germane. Any amendment proposed must
                       in some way involve the same question raised by the motion it amends.
                       As such, motions to amend should insert and/or strikeout wording of
                       the original motion. Motions to amend may not be the negation of the
                       main motion.

                                                                                                  5
                                                              Exhibit "A"




                                     Sandy City Council
                               LegislaƟve Policies and Procedures


                 ii.   The Chair will rule whether or not a Motion to Amend is germane to
                       the main motion.

           d) To retain clarity of debate, the main motion should only be amended no more
              than two times.

           e) A motion which has been seconded (amended or otherwise) and is the subject of
              debate must be dispensed with before a new motion can be considered. There
              are no “substitute motions” which unilaterally shift debate away from the main
              motion.

Motion to Reconsider




                                                                     T
           f) After a main motion has been dispensed with, a Motion to Reconsider may be
              offered at the same meeting in which the motion suggested to be reconsidered
              occurred. However, the Motion to Reconsider may only be offered by a Member
              who voted on the winning side, whether in the affirmative or negative. A second
                                           AF
              to the Motion to Reconsider may be offered by any Member. In the event of a tie
              vote, any member may offer a Motion to Reconsider. The Motion to Reconsider
              brings up the item at the same meeting in which the vote to be reconsidered
              occurred.

Renewal of Motions

           g) If properly placed on the Council Meeting agenda, any Member may Motion
                 R
              to Rescind or Amend an action of the Council.

    3. Debate

           a) It is recommended that formal titles such as “Mr./Madam Chair” be utilized
                D

              to encourage a professional, courteous and orderly atmosphere.

           b) No motion shall be debated until it has been seconded by another Member of
              the City Council. A motion dies for lack of a second from another Member of
              the Council.

           c) For clarity, after a motion has been seconded, the Chair should restate the
              motion or cause it to be displayed in writing for the Members of the Council and
              the public.

           d) The Chair should ensure that each Council Member who desires to speak
              has opportunity to do so.

           e) Members should refrain from speaking until being recognized by the Chair.
                                                                                                 6
                                                                 Exhibit "A"




                                       Sandy City Council
                                 LegislaƟve Policies and Procedures


Call the Previous Question or “Calling the Question”

            f) Any Member may make a Motion for the Previous Question during debate
               (commonly called “calling the question”). A Motion for the Previous Question
               is a proposal to end debate on the main motion. It requires a second and must
               be adopted by a majority of Members present. The Motion for the Previous
               Question is not debatable. A vote on the Previous Question does not decide
               the main motion. It decides whether or not debate on the main motion should
               cease.

Appeal

            g) Any Member may raise a Point of Order without having first been recognized by




                                                                       T
               the Chair in order to seek clarification on a parliamentary question. The Chair will
               rule on the Point of Order.

                    i. Rulings of the Chair may be appealed to the City Council as a whole.
                                             AF
                       A majority vote of the City Council may override a ruling of the
                       Chair.

Pause in Council Proceedings
            h) The Chair may allow the Council to stand at ease for a brief pause if
               necessary during debate.

    4. Quorum
                   R

            a) A quorum of the City Council is required to conduct business. A quorum is
               four Members.
                  D

    5. Voting

            a) Voting shall be in the form of “yes” or “aye,” “no” or “nay,” and “abstain.”
               The names of those voting for, against, or abstaining shall be entered in the
               Council minutes.

            b) No Council Members shall vote unless physically present or participating through
               electronic means pursuant to Utah Code Annotated § 52-4-207. Proxy votes are
               not allowed.

Types of Voting

            c) A roll call vote is required for all ordinances and may occur for other votes. “Roll

                                                                                                      7
                                                                  Exhibit "A"




                                        Sandy City Council
                                  LegislaƟve Policies and Procedures

                  call” means that each Council Member participating verbally gives his or her vote
                  when called upon to vote. Any Member has the discretion to call for a roll call
                  vote.

             d) If a roll call vote is not required, a voice vote may occur. A voice vote is the
                request of the Chair such as, “All in favor,” and/or “All opposed” where the
                Council Members simultaneously state their vote on an item.

Number of Votes Required to Pass an Item

             e) The minimum number of votes required to pass an ordinance or resolution, or
                to take any action by the Council, unless otherwise prescribed by law, is a
                majority of the entire membership of the Council, without regard to vacancy or
                absences, namely four votes.




                                                                         T
                      i. Notwithstanding this provision, a Council meeting may be adjourned
                         to a specific time if the majority vote is less than four votes.

             f)
                                               AF
                  An expression of “abstain” during voting shall not be considered as an affirmative
                  or negative vote. For purposes of a Motion to Reconsider, an “abstain” vote does
                  not grant standing. In other words, a Council Member who abstains on a question
                  or is absent when the vote on a question is taken may not move to reconsider the
                  question.


        g) In the case of a tie vote, the motion shall fail.
                   R
      Explanation of Vote or Conflict

        h) A Council Member desiring to explain his or her vote should do so prior to the call of
           the roll or voice vote.
                  D

       i)    Any Council Member who has an immediate or direct financial interest in any item
             pending before the Council shall disclose this fact to the Council at the time the item
             is called. Members declaring such an interest should leave the room during the
             discussion and abstain from voting on that item.

        j)   Custom should not conflict with adopted Rules of Order and Procedure. To the
             extent that custom conflicts with adopted Rules, the Rules shall supersede until
             amended to reflect customary practice.

    6. Amending the Rules

             a) If previous notice is given, namely a specific amendment or set of amendments to
                the Rules of Order and Procedure is placed on the regular Council Meeting agenda in

                                                                                                       8
                                                                 Exhibit "A"




                                      Sandy City Council
                                LegislaƟve Policies and Procedures

               advance, a majority vote of Members of the City Council is required to modify the
               Rules of Order and Procedure.

                      i.   If the Rules of Order and Procedure have not been explicitly placed on
                           the Council Meeting agenda for discussion, a two-thirds majority of the
                           Council Members present may suspend or modify the Rules in order to
                           accomplish a specific action.

           b) In the event that any provision herein conflicts with state law, state law supersedes.

   7. Biennial Training on and Review of the Rules of Procedure

           a) The City Council shall receive training on and review its Rules of Procedure,
              each evenly numbered calendar year no later than the last regularly scheduled
              Council Meeting in February.




                                                                        T
   8. A Link to each video or audio recording of every City Council meeting shall be published
      on the appropriate city council social media sites.
                                             AF
                R

History:
Original Approval: March 29, 2016
               D

Revision: February 19, 2019
Last Revision: 1-21-20
Last Revision: 9-1-20
Last Revision: 3-9-21
Last Revision: 2-15-22
Last revision: 2-21-23
Last revision: 2-27-24
Last revision: 5-7-24




                                                                                                       9
