                                        S ANDY CITY C O M M UN IT Y D E V EL O P ME N T
                                                                                                                                        JAMES SORENSEN
                                                                                                                                     COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
                                                                                                                                           DIRECTOR

                                                                                                                                          MONICA ZOLTANSKI
                                                                                                                                              MAYOR

                                                                                                                                          SHANE E. PACE
                                                                                                                                       CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE
                                                                                                                                         OFFICER




                                 Staff Report Memorandum
                                                         May 15, 2025


To:            Planning Commission
From:          Community Development Department
Subject:       Canny Kids on Hidden Circle Daycare (Conditional Use Permit)                                                      CUP03232025-006937
               11617 S. Hidden Circle                                                                                                         R-1-10
               [Community # 24]                                                                                                            .28 acres


 Public Meeting Notice:                 This item has been noticed to property owners within 500 feet of the
                                 subject area, on public websites and, at public locations.



Request
 The applicant, Sariah Schmickrath is requesting approval
 of conditional use permit to allow for a category II home
 occupation daycare to allow up to 16 children at one
 time for a property located at 11617 S. Hidden Cir. Any
 child daycare desiring to operate with more than eight
 children per day is required to obtain a conditional use
 permit for a category II home occupation from the
 Planning Commission. The permit allows for up to 16
 children at one time and a maximum of 18 children per
 day. See application materials for full details (Exhibit A
 and B).

Background
 The subject property is located in the R-1-10 zone and is
 approximately .26 acres (11,568 square feet). The subject
 property is lot 64 in the Hidden Valley Hills 1
 subdivision. The property was annexed in 1976.
 Properties to the north, south, east, and west are zoned
 R-1-10 with single family residential.




   10000 Centennial P arkway      | S a n d y, U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   |   p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   |   f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8    |   sandy.utah. gov
Schmickrath Daycare CUP – CUP03232025-006937                                                                                                        Page 2


Public Notice and Outreach
  This item has been noticed to property owners within 500 feet of the subject area
  by mail. A neighborhood meeting was held on April 22nd and seven neighbors
  attended. The following comments were made about the daycare:

    1. What is the difference between what is happening now and with an increase
        of kids. There are already issues with traffic.
    2. Questions about employees and where they park.
    3. Wanted to know how many kids the applicant is caring for.
    4. Concerns with traffic and other neighborhood children and pets playing in
        front yards.
    5. Neighbor came from a busy area and wanted to live in a quiet neighborhood/street. This has disturbed that quiet.
    6. Seeing extra traffic in the cul-de-sac – worried about traffic and safety.
    7. Upset with the proposal. Traffic seems like there is more than eight kids already there. Cars are driving too fast into
        the neighborhood. Cars are in the way of garbage trucks, snow removal vehicles, etc. Concerned with privacy issues
        and home values.
    8. Concerned with parking in cul-de-sac, applicants and neighbor dogs barking a lot as people come and go.
    9. Concerned with the number of children and number of cars coming and going.
    10. Asked about other Canny Kids location and how that is related to this location.
    11. Families in the cul-de-sac have lots of cars that need to be parked. Only one spot for on street parking in front of each
        house. Difficulty with maneuvering larger vehicles or RV’s in cul-de-sac.
    12. Flow of traffic is difficult in the cul-de-sac and garbage pickup can be difficult.
    13. Parking of other neighboring family and friend’s vehicles in the neighborhood can be difficult.
    14. Pick and drop off happens all day since kids are not there all day.
    15. Would rather there be renters at the home instead of a daycare.

In addition, eleven emails have been received (Exhibit C).

Analysis
  The applicant currently has a license for a category I home occupation daycare for up to 8 children. The applicant is
  seeking a category II home occupation daycare to allow for up to 16 children. The applicant is proposing to only have up
  to 12 children per day but would be allowed the maximum number allowed by code. Section 21-11-05(F)(3) of the Sandy
  City Development Code states:

  (3) Child Day Care. The following items indicate maximum limits that may be granted by the Planning Commission when
       a child day care is expected to exceed eight at one time:
    a. A maximum of 16 children is permitted at any one time.
    b. A maximum of 18 children is permitted per day.
    c. These numbers shall include the licensee’s and any employee’s children if they are under six years of age under the
         care of the licensee at the time of the home occupation is conducted.
    d. A maximum of 24 vehicular stops per day for child drop off to pick up is permitted.

  The applicant is proposing to operate from Monday through Friday from 8:30am to 5:30pm. The applicant is proposing to
  only have 12 children at this time but with the conditional use permit they would be allowed to increase that to 16 at any
  time. The applicant does not have any children of her own under the age of six.

  A proposed parking plan has been reviewed and approved by Ivan Hooper, Transportation Engineer. The applicant’s
  house is located in a cul-de-sac and the cars will pull around and up to the curb near the applicant’s house to drop off and

       10000 Centennial P arkway      | S a n d y, U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   |   p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   |   f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   |   sandy.utah. gov
Schmickrath Daycare CUP – CUP03232025-006937                                                                                                             Page 3


 pick up. The applicant has two part-time employees that would require an off-street
 parking space. Only one employee is allowed to work at the home at a time. A traffic
 plan has not been provided for current daycare clients. A traffic plan needs to be
 provided for all current and future clients so they know how to navigate the cul-de-sac.

 A maximum of 24 vehicular stops per day are permitted. To meet this standard, all
 children cannot be individually dropped off and picked up. To achieve the maximum
 number of children at the daycare, patrons will need to carpool, bike, or walk to the
 property. No on-street parking is allowed at any time, including employee parking.

 Home occupations may have one, one square foot in area, non-illuminated flat wall
 sign mounted to the residence per section 21-26-6(b) of the Sandy City Development
 Code. The applicant has a portable A-frame sign that will need to be removed from the
 front of the house.

 Conditional Use Standards
 The City may impose conditions on a conditional use based on certain standards of review found in section 21-33-04 of
 Sandy City Land Development Code. The following items from that list are applicable to this particular request and merit
 discussion or additional consideration by the Planning Commission (staff analysis is found below in italics):

Sec. 21-33-4. Conditions.
     In order to achieve compliance with the standards set forth herein, the City may impose conditions that address:
     (5)   Site circulation patterns for vehicular, pedestrian and other traffic.
     The applicant is proposing to have the children dropped off and picked up in front of their property on Hidden Circle.
     (12) The regulation of operating hours for activities affecting normal schedules and functions.
     The applicant is proposing to operate Monday through Friday from 8:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.
     (14) Measures to assure compliance with all conditions and requirements of approval, including, but not limited to, bonds,
          letters of credit, improvement agreements, agreements to conditions, road maintenance funds, and restrictive
          covenants.
     To be reviewed upon legitimate complaint.
     (15) Such other conditions determined reasonable and necessary by the City to allow the operation of the proposed
          conditional use, at the proposed location in compliance with the requirements of this title.
     That the applicant complies with all Building & Safety, and Fire & Life Codes.


 Staff Concerns
 Staff is concerned with how drop-off/pick-up has been conducted. A traffic plan has not been given to clients for the
 approved category I daycare. A traffic plan needs to be provided for all current and future clients explaining how to
 navigate the cul-de-sac and where to stop on the curb next to the driveway to drop-off/pick-up children.

Recommendation
 Staff recommends that the Planning Commission approve a Conditional Use Permit for a category II home occupation
 for day care use and as described in the staff report for the property located at 11617 S. Hidden Circle based on the
 following findings and subject to the following conditions:

Findings:
   1. The proposed use meets the intent of the home occupation section of the Sandy City Land Development Code.


       10000 Centennial P arkway           | S a n d y, U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   |   p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   |   f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   |   sandy.utah. gov
Schmickrath Daycare CUP – CUP03232025-006937                                                                                                       Page 4


Conditions:
   1. That the applicant ensures that carpooling, walking, biking, or other alternative methods of transportation are used
       by patrons such that the maximum number of 24 vehicular trips is not exceeded.

    2.   That the applicant ensures patrons are informed and follow the pick-up and drop-off procedures to prevent on-
         street parking, blocking neighboring driveways, and minimizes disturbance to the neighborhood.

    3. That the applicant removes any illegal signage that is posted. The applicant may have one, one square foot in area,
       non-illuminated flat wall sign mounted to the residence.

    4.   That the applicant be responsible for meeting all provisions of the Sandy City Development Code, including all
         business licensing requirements, and all conditions of approval imposed by the Planning Commission.

    5.   That this Conditional Use Permit be reviewed upon legitimate complaint.

  Planner:




  Sarah Stringham
  Planner

File Name: S:\USERS\PLN\STAFFRPT\2025\CUP03232025-006937 - SCHMICKRATH DAYCARE CUP\STAFF REPORT
SCHMICKRATH - CUP.DOCX




         10000 Centennial P arkway   | S a n d y, U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   |   p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   |   f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   |   sandy.utah. gov
Schmickrath Daycare CUP – CUP03232025-006937                                                                                                  Page 5


                                                          Exhibit “A”




    10000 Centennial P arkway   | S a n d y, U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   |   p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   |   f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   |   sandy.utah. gov
Schmickrath Daycare CUP – CUP03232025-006937                                                                                                  Page 6



                                                          Exhibit “B”




    10000 Centennial P arkway   | S a n d y, U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   |   p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   |   f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   |   sandy.utah. gov
Schmickrath Daycare CUP – CUP03232025-006937                                                                                                  Page 7


                                                 Exhibit “C”
                                    See neighborhood comments attached.




    10000 Centennial P arkway   | S a n d y, U t a h 8 4 0 7 0   |   p: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 5 0   |   f: 8 0 1 . 5 6 8 . 7 2 7 8   |   sandy.utah. gov
From:               Holly Taylor
To:                 Sarah Stringham
Subject:            [EXTERNAL] Hi Mrs Stringham,
Date:               Tuesday, April 22, 2025 5:35:38 PM




CAUTION: Do not click links, open attachments, or reply, unless you recognize the sender's email address!



Hi Mrs Stringham,

I am writing about some concerns I have about a home-based drop-off daycare operating out of a residence in our
cul-de-sac, at 11671 S Hidden Circle, Sandy, Utah.
There’s a high volume of cars coming and going throughout the day, creating traffic and many of the drivers seem
rushed and unaware. I am not opposed to a small amount of children but if it increases up to 16 children, I can only
imagine how much harder it will get.
Parking has become very difficult, because the parents will park in front of our house. Vehicles often block the cul-
de-sac, making it impossible for garbage trucks, snowplows, and street sweepers to access our area, which happens
frequently. Cars constantly coming and going causes our dogs to bark constantly in response, making it hard for us
to work from home during meetings. We can’t even let our dogs out when the kids are outside because they bark
non-stop at the shared fence.
I wanted to reach out about a concern we’ve been having. The limited parking spaces near our home have been
increasingly taken up by daycare drop-offs and pick-ups throughout the day, which has been increasingly difficult.
Originally we were told it would be a preschool and would be a small number of children, not an all day daycare.

Our dogs have also started barking at every car and person coming and going all day long—something they’ve never
done before. Since both my husband and I work from home, it has made it very hard. We also can’t let the dogs out
while the kids are outside, as they end up constantly barking at our shared fence causing continued disruptions.

Thank you for letting us share our feelings and concerns about this. We have always had very little traffic going in
and out of our circle and the way this seems to be is building feels very frustrating. Especially with more children
once they are out of school for the summer. I'm afraid the increase in traffic and our extremely limited parking
capacity will leave us unable to have our guests park at all close to our house. Each house in our circle only has
room for one car to park in front of each house.



Sent from my iPhone
From:            Shauna Sowles
To:              Sarah Stringham
Subject:         [EXTERNAL] Sandy City Community Developement Department Comments
Date:            Tuesday, April 22, 2025 10:02:52 AM




  CAUTION: Do not click links, open attachments, or reply, unless you recognize the sender's
                                        email address!



Dear Ms. Stringham,
Thank you for seeking comments regarding the in-home daycare center on 11617 S Hidden
Circle.

I am opposed to this for safety reasons and quality of life for residents.

My husband and I purchased our home on Hidden Circle over 20 years ago. We moved from
our starter home on a busy Salt Lake City street, and specifically chose this Sandy home that
was on a quiet cul de sac, with stunning mountain views to raise our family. Our children, and
the other kids enjoyed learning to ride bikes and play safely within our circle. The residents of
the circle drove in and out cautiously as all were aware that kids might be at play.

With that said, the current situation is quite a bit different. There is a high volume of traffic in
and out of the circle with parents dropping off and picking up children, often hurriedly. This
is disrupting the quiet that the residents have come to enjoy in our neighborhood. I didn't
realize our residential neighborhood was zoned for an in-home business.

Thank you for your consideration.

Sincerely,
Shauna Sowles
11622 Hidden Circle
801-503-6390
Subject: Sariah Schmickrath Daycare Expansion 11617 S. Hidden Circle Sandy, UT 84092
Conditional Use Permit Request – Business Expansion by Sariah Schmickrath, (likely d.b.a.
Canny Kids On Hidden Circle per Sandy City website).
 It is important to note this location is best described as a circle, court or cul-de-sac with
   limited surface street space and a single ingress/egress point. Lot sizes in the area of the
   Sandy City notification are approximately 0.22 acres to 0.29 acres, so limited separation
   between neighbors on the back and side yards. The area is not acreage or horse property,
   (traffic & noise concerns).
 While Sariah Schmickrath may be requesting the Conditional Use Permit, the permit is
   attached to the property, not to her, and could possibly live into perpetuity as part of the
   property if approved.

Please present to meeting attendees and subsequently to the Planning Commission:
A Conditional Use Permit as defined on the Sandy City website:
 “A Conditional Use Permit is required when a property owner proposes to use its land for
   purposes listed as a conditional use in associated zoning, or which by the uses nature, could
   negatively impact surrounding properties”.
   o The proposed expansion likely benefits the Sariah Schmickrath household if
       approved but, it would be at the significant long-term expense of the neighbors.
 A Conditional Use Permit is attached to the specific property, not the property owner.
 This means that when the property is sold, the new owner inherits the permit and its
   associated conditions (it could be a 16-child daycare forever, commercial-esque).
 Upon receipt of a Conditional Use Permit, unless the Conditional Use is violated, it can
   survive into perpetuity (it could be a 16-child daycare forever, commercial-esque).
 The home sold in August 2023 (Zillow & Redfin), obtained Sandy City business licensure
   08/30/2024 (Sandy City website) and opened the daycare 09/03/2024 (per their Canny Kids
   Facebook ad) and now in early April 2025 wants to expand.
   o Depending on calculation, this location went from a “standard residence” to a “residence
       with a commercial operation” in 12-13 months and now wants to “expand the residence
       with a commercial operation”, in 7-8 months from the original daycare open date.

Business expansion likely improves the Sariah Schmickrath household from a range of
economics (revenue expansion and potential tax advantages without added physical lease
costs), but it is a direct detriment to neighbors, both financially and from deprivation of
quiet use and enjoyment (quiet use and enjoyment is already stretched – see below).
    o It is well documented that property values decline with increases in neighborhood noise
        and traffic and this request offers no beneficial offset for neighbors.
    o Why should a single residence benefit at the expense of many neighbors’ homes?



                                           Page 1 of 4
As a neighbor already struggling with noise generated from 11617 Hidden Circle, I can attest
there does not seem to be current procedural measures in place to minimize levels of daycare
noise under the current daycare structure. This following example has direct correlation to the
business expansion at the same residence.
 The Sariah Schmickrath household frequently leaves their dog out all night (singular used for
    lack plural confirmation – Sandy can verify by dog licenses attached to the residence).
 As expected, there is frequent barking, sometimes prolonged, during the night and early
    morning (10pm-7am).
 This displays disregard to current municipal ordinance(s) and neighbors. There has been no
    expected, and incumbent, corrective intervention by the dog owners to stem the noise, like
    bringing the dog(s) inside. The children’s noise frequently precludes opening windows.

The noise with up to 16 children is unfathomable. If approved, the Conditional Use Permit brings
both day and night noise for neighbors.
 A screaming child (joy-anger-fear) can reach between 85 and 120 dB (decibels), with some
   reaching 120 dB. For comparison, at normal operation, a jet engine can produce noise levels
   of 110-120 decibels (Source - World Health Organization among others).
 We have all likely had neighbors with children – but 16 children in a single yard?
 What procedural measures are incorporated and documented to minimize the noise the
   business already generates now, and more so with possible expansion to 16 children?
 Why would future behavior be any different as it relates to an expanded daycare business if
   the example is already to not mitigate noise for both the existing daycare and dog?
 Hasn’t the Sariah Schmickrath household already displayed their lack of commitment to the
   neighborhood and has disobeyed municipal code(s) around noise?
 Who will be monitoring noise levels – the business, Sandy City or does it become an
   additional burden on the neighbors already subjected to potentially excessive noise?
 For excessive noise issues, who do neighbors contact; Sandy Police or Code Enforcement
   and will neighbors be forced to document issues to alleviate issues - burdensome? (Improper
   use of resources. Potential issues should be precluded before they are allowed to even start).
 How will up to 16 children easily be accommodated at a single home and in a single
   backyard without undue negative imposition on the neighbors, today and in the future?
 What about neighbors that work odd shifts and try to sleep between 8am & 6pm?
 What about neighbors with elderly, ill or young children sensitive to noise disruption?
 What about neighbor’s pets? How can neighbors allow their pet to use their own backyard
   without concern the pets will be triggered to bark by the group of children?
Why should neighbors be subjected to the detrimental effects of deprivation of quiet use
and enjoyment for the singular benefit conveyed to the Sariah Schmickrath household?



                                          Page 2 of 4
Please note the original advertisement on Facebook for opening the Hidden Circle location on
09/03/2024 stated in part the following the opening sentence “This move will oﬀer several
beneﬁts, including the ability to provide outdoor play … ”. This is a request for
commercial expansion. A business entity this size should not be operating in the middle of a
neighborhood. There are abundant retail space options available in the Sandy/Draper area.

It would seem on the surface the expansion request is cost effective for the Sariah Schmickrath
household while being a detriment to the neighbors. A response of economics is a business
planning dilemma, not the reason to open or expand a business of this magnitude in a residential
area via a Conditional Use Permit which by nature would be long term if approved.

The noise, traffic, parking and general lack of current concerns for neighbors must be evaluated.
It is well documented that property values decline with increases in neighborhood noise and
traffic and this request offers no beneficial offset for neighbors. Why should the neighbors be
subject to the detrimental effects for the sole benefit of the Sariah Schmickrath household?
 How will lack of parking affect access and services for neighbors (routine and unplanned)
     like fire, ambulance, police, USPS, garbage, snow removal, street cleaners etc. – even you
     and your family members trying to park in front of your own home or backing out of your
     driveway?
 How many parking spaces will be required for employees and where?
 Does Sandy City allow extended street parking for a commercial enterprise?
 What about parking twice a day to drop off and retrieve children – potentially up to 16
     vehicles at a time (unlikely but not statistically impossible)?
 Who, and how, validates no more than 16 children would be present at any time?
 Does the 16 children count include their own children or any children if they aren’t paid?
Note on parking, the home next door at 11609 Hidden Circle already has cars routinely parked
across the sidewalk – in violation of city ordinance - due to lack of their own parking space.

There are potential liability concerns today for neighbors stemming from the daycare.
 Homeowners insurance is designed to protect your home, its contents, and your family from
   covered risks. It generally does not cover the liability or property damage related to your
   neighbor's business.
 Business activity is separate. Your neighbor's daycare is considered a business activity, and
   it's the responsibility of the daycare owner to ensure they have the necessary insurance to
   cover any potential liabilities or damages related to their business.
 Insurance companies assess and manage their risk. Proximity to a daycare can be a factor that
   could increase that risk, possibly causing increases in rates and coverage changes.
 Who and how is insurance maintained – homeowner’s policy or separate business policy?


                                           Page 3 of 4
   Does, or will, Canny Kids or the Sariah Schmickrath household maintain sufficient insurance
    (coverage limit amounts and type) to hold any neighbors harmless if a child were to enter a
    neighbor’s yard / driveway, injuring themselves and how is this verified?
   How is insurance handled on public streets (Hidden Circle) if a child wanders onto the
    surface street, and forbid, is struck by a vehicle (resident, employee or customer vehicle)?
   Do Canny Kids employees (1099 or W-2 or ??) require their own liability insurance or are
    the potential liabilities covered by Sariah Schmickrath / Canny Kids policies?
   Has it been verified this business is already fully licensed, meets all criteria to operate legally
    and has proven business plans to meet municipal and legal requirements for expanded
    operations? (The Sandy City website states issued 08/2024 for up to eight children).
   How will the residential neighbors’ exposure be mitigated by the business and how is this
    verified and by who?

There are needed contact points.
 Is Sariah Schmickrath a confirmed property owner of 11617 Hidden Circle and is a
   confirmed resident as well as being a business owner (at least partial), and not possibly just
   running a business from this location?
   o This is presumed but unknown to the public and who is responsible to verify?
 Will the Sariah Schmickrath household disclose their license# identifier that can be linked to
   Sandy City, the county or state? The information is not on the Sandy City site.
 Who maintains responsibility and acts as a business conduit for any concerns, the Sariah
   Schmickrath household or Canny Kids or Sandy Police or Code Enforcement?
 Where is key resolution contact information displayed for problem resolution that can be
   readily accessed – telephone, email etc. – not general customer contact points?
 Does the business have problem resolution mechanisms in their existing business plan?
 What business hours of operation are being proposed with this expansion?
 Does the Sariah Schmickrath household have any property or business relationships with the
   Canny Kids business at 1669 E 11400 S Sandy, UT 84092?
 Is the 1669 E 11400 S Sandy, UT 84092 location also seeking expansion (currently listed in
   the Sandy City website as up to 8 children)?
 Are either of the two Sandy UT locations related to a possible Canny Kids location in Draper
   (per Google search - in a commercial setting along 12300 S. near 300 E)?
 All three locations advertise the same telephone number, (801) 890-0650, and the two Sandy
   locations also have the same email and website destination in Google searches.

I received the Sandy City Conditional Use Permit Request notification on 04/11/2025 via USPS.
Mike Scamardi - Sandy UT since 1994 and at the current Sandy address since 2004.



                                             Page 4 of 4
From:           Susie Moody
To:             Sarah Stringham
Subject:        [EXTERNAL] Reply to use permit
Date:           Monday, April 21, 2025 12:42:48 PM




  CAUTION: Do not click links, open attachments, or reply, unless you recognize the sender's
                                        email address!



Dear Mrs. Stringham,

I hope this message finds you well. I’m writing to formally raise concerns about a home-based
drop-off daycare operating out of a residence in our cul-de-sac, at 11671 S Hidden Circle in
Sandy.

While I understand the importance of accessible childcare, this particular operation has
brought several ongoing issues that are negatively impacting the safety, privacy, and quality of
life in our neighborhood.

Every day, there is a high volume of vehicles coming and going throughout the day, which has
created consistent traffic congestion in what is supposed to be a quiet residential area. This is
not only disruptive but also a safety hazard—especially considering the number of young
children who live and play in our neighborhood. The risk of an accident has increased
significantly due to the constant flow of cars.

Additionally, many of these vehicles park in the cul-de-sac, which has created problems for
essential city services. Garbage and recycling trucks struggle to maneuver on pickup days
(Mondays), and snowplows and street sweepers are often unable to access or properly clean
our area. This has been a recurring issue, especially during the winter and city maintenance
days.

Noise is another concern. Between the comings and goings of parents and children, slamming
car doors, and general daycare activity, the constant noise throughout the day has been very
disruptive. My dog (as well as day care operators dog) is frequently triggered by all the
movement and noise, leading to non-stop barking, which only adds to the disturbance in the
neighborhood and our home.

Privacy has also become a serious concern. I have a pool in my backyard, and due to the
elevation and layout of the neighbor’s property, the drop-off and pick-up area directly
overlooks our yard. What used to be a private, peaceful space now feels exposed and
uncomfortable to use as I have a teenage daughter who enjoys tanning in her bikini.

This situation has changed the character of our residential neighborhood, making it feel more
like a commercial zone than a place where families should be able to enjoy peace, safety, and
privacy. There is an 8yo across the street who should be playing rather than parents being
concerned about vehicles. Most of us have teenagers who know to look out for the younger
kids but I’ve personally seen the day care kids run out in to the road (in the cul-de-sac). The
parents dropping off and picking up tend to be in a hurry and have been inconsiderate as well
cars parked in front of all of the neighbors homes.
I kindly ask the council to look into this matter and assess whether this daycare setup aligns
with local zoning and residential use policies. I appreciate your attention to this issue and
would welcome any updates or guidance on how it will be addressed.

Sincerely,

Susie Solosth
11631 S Hidden Circle, Sandy, Ut 84092
801-599-0905
Sarah Stringham

From:                           Roger Law <rogerjlaw@hotmail.com>
Sent:                           Wednesday, April 30, 2025 3:36 PM
To:                             Sarah Stringham
Subject:                        [EXTERNAL] #CUP03232025-006937-V1 Business Expansion by Sariah Schmickrath

Follow Up Flag:                 Follow up
Flag Status:                    Flagged



  CAUTION: Do not click links, open attachments, or reply, unless you recognize the sender's email address!


Hello Sarah, my name is Roger Law. And as a Sandy City homeowner I am writing to express my opposition to
the expansion of the on-demand childcare business located at 11617 Hidden Circle in Sandy, a residential
neighborhood.

Before I was aware that there was a business located at that address, I had just assumed that the resident had
a lot of kids. I would hear them with all of their screams, laughter, and high-pitched shrieks at different times
of the day. I found this a little odd, but perhaps they are home schooled. All of this would be something we
would just try to accept with it being a large family.

Then their dog, or is it two, came into the picture, barking throughout the day and sometimes through the
night. With all of the carrying on coming from the backyard at that location it is causing other dogs in the area
to start barking. Now, my nerves are on edge.

There are times that we work from home, and when we have a conference call, we have to deal with all of the
commotion caused by someone who is operating a business that causes a lot more noise in a residential
neighborhood.

We are no longer able to have our two patio doors or any of our windows open to enjoy the fresh air. We have
a beautiful backyard, that we have spent a lot of time and money on, and we find it increasingly difficult to
enjoy it. This used to be a nice quiet neighborhood, it's why we bought here in the first place. Anymore, it
seems that any quiet time is short lived.

So, once I found out that there was a business operating out of the residence at 11617 Hidden Circle, and that
they were actually trying to get a conditional use permit to double the amount of kids they are allowed to
have there, in addition to their own four children, just imagine how unhappy I was. This would mean there
could be 20 children at that house at any given time. It has already been unacceptable with all of the noise
coming from that location. There's a reason we didn't purchase a cheaper home near a school.

Our home is located behind the house where this business is located, and one house over. I don't even
understand how the original permit was ever given in the first place. We were never notified about the
intentions.

I can't imagine what the neighbors who live on that small quiet cul-de-sac have had to endure since this
business was allowed to begin operating. With the limited parking on Hidden Circle and now with all of the
                                                        1
additional traffic that this business has created it is unacceptable. Any serenity or tranquility that was once
enjoyed left when people started dropping their kids off every day. Dogs barking, kids screaming and then
another car arrives to drop-off or pick up their child. Then it begins again.

Not only am I opposed to any expansion to this daycare service, but I would also like to see the original permit
rescinded. From what I understand many of the qualifications and business standards have not been met or
violated from the very beginning. Also, allowing your dog, or dogs, to bark incessantly, and allowing however
many children are in their backyard to literally scream at the top of their lungs, disturbing everyone else
around them, is completely disrespectful.

I long for a time where our neighborhood can get back to what it once was, a nice quiet place to live. Where
we can sit outside and enjoy the fresh air and relax instead of what we have now.

I want to thank you for your time and consideration in this matter.

Roger J. Law
1588 Jordan Point Dr.
Sandy, UT 84092




                                                         2
Sarah Stringham

From:                         Cameron Moore <ckmoore11@yahoo.com>
Sent:                         Monday, April 28, 2025 5:00 PM
To:                           Sarah Stringham
Subject:                      [EXTERNAL] Conditional Use Permit Sariah Schmickrath

Follow Up Flag:               Follow up
Flag Status:                  Flagged



  CAUTION: Do not click links, open attachments, or reply, unless you recognize the sender's email address!


I am unable to attend this meeting, but wanted to express my opinion.

I am a neighbor and l live within 100 feet of the property in question.

I have not found the day care to be loud, intrusive, or objectionable. I work from home, and rarely
even hear or see any children. But I do welcome the sound of kids playing.

I support the Conditional Use Permit for this property.

Sincerely,
Cameron Moore
1602 Jordan Point Drive
Sandy, Utah 84092




                                                      1
Sarah Stringham

From:                           mike.scamardi@gmail.com
Sent:                           Sunday, April 27, 2025 4:50 PM
To:                             Sarah Stringham
Subject:                        [EXTERNAL] Follow-up Conditional Use Permit SENT - Business Expansion by Sariah
                                Schmickrath 11617 Hidden Circle Sandy UT 8092
Attachments:                    Conditional Use Permit Response Daycare 04162025.docx

Follow Up Flag:                 Follow up
Flag Status:                    Flagged



  CAUTION: Do not click links, open attachments, or reply, unless you recognize the sender's email address!


Hello Sarah – I did see the document for the 05/01/25 evening meeting regarding file #CUP03232025-006937-
V1 Sariah Schmickrath 11617 Hidden Circle Sandy UT 8092. Unfortunately, again due to health issues I cannot
attend the teleconference and saw (labeled page 3) that there is limited time to speak so additional comments
should be submitted before the scheduled meeting, in this case 05/01/25 starting 6:15pm MT. Here are my
additional comments that I ask to be added to the meeting and that questions raised are addressed. Thank you
again for your time.
     Again, I am not in favor in extending additional business expansion as noted in my original document
        (still attached) and also echoed by other neighbors verbally at the 04/22/25 meeting and via written
        communication.
     The document copy (pdf page 57) of the 05.01.2025 PC Packet states the staff recommends approval
        subject to specific conditions.
             o Hopefully, the final Planning Commissioner decide to override this initial recommendation
                  as it deprives multiple neighbors of quiet use and enjoyment and poses safety issues.
     Is the business allowed to expand NOW, subject to showing future conditions have now been met OR,
        the business must prove they have met all Conditions and THEN there is a decision if they can expand?
             o It is key all conditions are met and reviewed BEFORE the business expansion is approved. My
                  40+ years in corporate environments suggests if approved and then go do “these things” that
                  frequently not all “these things” are completed or may not be completed .
     Condition #1 - Who monitors the “vehicular trips” noted in pdf page 57? Does this fall to the neighbors?
        If so, will it be communicated to the neighbors how to monitor and document vehicle traffic to ascribe to
        Sandy City reporting metrics?
     Condition #2 – How is “ensure patrons are informed and follow pick-up and drop-off procedures” noted
        in pdf page 57 going to be monitored and what qualifies as “ensure”? What does Sandy City mandate to
        know this occurs, before and after, potential expansion? Are the neighbors again tasked with monitoring,
        if so, all the “What does Sandy City require from neighbors” type questions arise.
     Condition #3 - Who monitors signage noted in pdf pages 57 to know it was completed?
     Condition #4 - How is as noted in pdf page 58 “applicant is responsible for meeting all provisions of the
        Sandy City Development Code …” monitored? Again, this is not something the neighbors can or should
        be required to monitor.
     Why haven’t any conditions been placed around noise levels? Noise was voiced as a concern by
        multiple parties. If I were to play a stereo very loud, someone could contact the Sandy Police, is this the
        same path that neighbors would need to be followed or is it a Planning Commission issue to be raised?


                                                         1
      Page 61 – Sec. 21-33-4. Conditions, item #14 of the pdf document discusses financial coverage and
       general agreements. These are very important considerations; however, the document answers its own
       requirement by stating “To be reviewed upon legitimate complaint”.
            o Is Sandy City stating this has not been reviewed? How does Sandy City (which neighbors are
                reliant upon) know the Daycare is adequately funded and insured to limit liability to both the
                neighbors and Sandy City itself in the event of legal action.
            o Specifically, where an insurer might contest or seek subrogation against Sandy City for
                approving this in a confined residential space or neighbors if a child runs into the surface street
                or neighboring driveway?
Also copied from the Sandy City website, “5. Prohibited Businesses There are several types of businesses that
are deemed incompatible with residential uses. These include … or substantially impair the use and value of the
residential area”.
This expansion will materially affect neighboring properties. Try selling a home with up to 16 children in the
neighboring backyard or where the residence is in a Circle and the Circle has moving vehicles throughout the
day.


From: mike.scamardi@gmail.com <mike.scamardi@gmail.com>
Sent: Thursday, April 17, 2025 11:09 AM
To: sstringham@sandy.utah.gov
Subject: Conditional Use Permit SENT - Business Expansion by Sariah Schmickrath 11617 Hidden Circle Sandy UT 8092

I spoke with you last week (thank you for your time,) and as noted in the letter, you indicated an email with
thoughts/concerns can be used for the Neighborhood Zoom Meeting 04/22/2025 ~7pm.
 Please reply “Received” only to confirm you received this email as it is important to me and some of the
    neighbors I have spoken with that our voices are heard.
 I am copying information here in the email and am also including a word document with exact same
    language for your convenience in copy/paste functionality if desired.
 I included my name on the last page of the word document because it will become part of the public
    record.(If you need me to do something different, please advise as I am very concerned on the business
    expansion request.
 My email already has my name.
        o Likely indifferent but the Sandy City letter had my wife’s name Margaret Scamardi (deceased
            February 02 2019). I think perhaps her name may have been first on one of the utility bills as she
            made telephone calls to get services transferred from our prior Sandy address in 2004. I have been a
            listed owner of my property within the Sandy Notification Area (within 500ft per the letter) since
            08/2004.
 I want the Sandy City Planning Committee to see the document in addition to verbal presentation being
    held, so please let me know how to best handle that.
Thank you – Mike Scamardi Sandy City UT

Subject: Sariah Schmickrath Daycare Expansion 11617 S. Hidden Circle Sandy, UT 84092
Conditional Use Permit Request – Business Expansion by Sariah Schmickrath, (likely d.b.a. Canny Kids On
Hidden Circle per Sandy City website).
 It is important to note this location is best described as a circle, court or cul-de-sac with limited surface
   street space and a single ingress/egress point. Lot sizes in the area of the Sandy City notification are
   approximately 0.22 acres to 0.29 acres, so limited separation between neighbors on the back and side yards.
   The area is not acreage or horse property, (traffic & noise concerns).
 While Sariah Schmickrath may be requesting the Conditional Use Permit, the permit is attached to the
   property, not to her, and could possibly live into perpetuity as part of the property if approved.
                                                         2
Please present to meeting attendees and subsequently to the Planning Commission:
A Conditional Use Permit as defined on the Sandy City website:
 “A Conditional Use Permit is required when a property owner proposes to use its land for purposes listed as
   a conditional use in associated zoning, or which by the uses nature, could negatively impact surrounding
   properties”.
           o The proposed expansion likely benefits the Sariah Schmickrath household if approved but,
                it would be at the significant long-term expense of the neighbors.
 A Conditional Use Permit is attached to the specific property, not the property owner.
 This means that when the property is sold, the new owner inherits the permit and its associated conditions (it
   could be a 16-child daycare forever, commercial-esque).
 Upon receipt of a Conditional Use Permit, unless the Conditional Use is violated, it can survive into
   perpetuity (it could be a 16-child daycare forever, commercial-esque).
 The home sold in August 2023 (Zillow & Redfin), obtained Sandy City business licensure 08/30/2024
   (Sandy City website) and opened the daycare 09/03/2024 (per their Canny Kids Facebook ad) and now in
   early April 2025 wants to expand.
           o Depending on calculation, this location went from a “standard residence” to a “residence with a
                commercial operation” in 12-13 months and now wants to “expand the residence with a
                commercial operation”, in 7-8 months from the original daycare open date.

Business expansion likely improves the Sariah Schmickrath household from a range of economics
(revenue expansion and potential tax advantages without added physical lease costs), but it is a direct
detriment to neighbors, both financially and from deprivation of quiet use and enjoyment (quiet use and
enjoyment is already stretched – see below).
           o It is well documented that property values decline with increases in neighborhood noise and
              traffic and this request offers no beneficial offset for neighbors.
           o Why should a single residence benefit at the expense of many neighbors’ homes?

As a neighbor already struggling with noise generated from 11617 Hidden Circle, I can attest there does not
seem to be current procedural measures in place to minimize levels of daycare noise under the current daycare
structure. This following example has direct correlation to the business expansion at the same residence.
 The Sariah Schmickrath household frequently leaves their dog out all night (singular used for lack plural
    confirmation – Sandy can verify by dog licenses attached to the residence).
 As expected, there is frequent barking, sometimes prolonged, during the night and early morning (10pm-
    7am).
 This displays disregard to current municipal ordinance(s) and neighbors. There has been no expected, and
    incumbent, corrective intervention by the dog owners to stem the noise, like bringing the dog(s) inside. The
    children’s noise frequently precludes opening windows.

The noise with up to 16 children is unfathomable. If approved, the Conditional Use Permit brings both day and
night noise for neighbors.
 A screaming child (joy-anger-fear) can reach between 85 and 120 dB (decibels), with some reaching 120
   dB. For comparison, at normal operation, a jet engine can produce noise levels of 110-120 decibels (Source
   - World Health Organization among others).
 We have all likely had neighbors with children – but 16 children in a single yard?
 What procedural measures are incorporated and documented to minimize the noise the business already
   generates now, and more so with possible expansion to 16 children?
 Why would future behavior be any different as it relates to an expanded daycare business if the example is
   already to not mitigate noise for both the existing daycare and dog?

                                                        3
   Hasn’t the Sariah Schmickrath household already displayed their lack of commitment to the neighborhood
    and has disobeyed municipal code(s) around noise?
 Who will be monitoring noise levels – the business, Sandy City or does it become an additional burden on
    the neighbors already subjected to potentially excessive noise?
 For excessive noise issues, who do neighbors contact; Sandy Police or Code Enforcement and will
    neighbors be forced to document issues to alleviate issues - burdensome? (Improper use of resources.
    Potential issues should be precluded before they are allowed to even start).
 How will up to 16 children easily be accommodated at a single home and in a single backyard without
    undue negative imposition on the neighbors, today and in the future?
 What about neighbors that work odd shifts and try to sleep between 8am & 6pm?
 What about neighbors with elderly, ill or young children sensitive to noise disruption?
 What about neighbor’s pets? How can neighbors allow their pet to use their own backyard without concern
    the pets will be triggered to bark by the group of children?
Why should neighbors be subjected to the detrimental effects of deprivation of quiet use and enjoyment
for the singular benefit conveyed to the Sariah Schmickrath household?

Please note the original advertisement on Facebook for opening the Hidden Circle location on 09/03/2024 stated
in part the following the opening sentence “This move will offer several benefits, including the ability to provide
outdoor play …”. This is a request for commercial expansion. A business entity this size should not be operating
in the middle of a neighborhood. There are abundant retail space options available in the Sandy/Draper area.

It would seem on the surface the expansion request is cost effective for the Sariah Schmickrath household while
being a detriment to the neighbors. A response of economics is a business planning dilemma, not the reason to
open or expand a business of this magnitude in a residential area via a Conditional Use Permit which by nature
would be long term if approved.

The noise, traffic, parking and general lack of current concerns for neighbors must be evaluated. It is well
documented that property values decline with increases in neighborhood noise and traffic and this request offers
no beneficial offset for neighbors. Why should the neighbors be subject to the detrimental effects for the
sole benefit of the Sariah Schmickrath household?
 How will lack of parking affect access and services for neighbors (routine and unplanned) like fire,
    ambulance, police, USPS, garbage, snow removal, street cleaners etc. – even you and your family members
    trying to park in front of your own home or backing out of your driveway?
 How many parking spaces will be required for employees and where?
 Does Sandy City allow extended street parking for a commercial enterprise?
 What about parking twice a day to drop off and retrieve children – potentially up to 16 vehicles at a time
    (unlikely but not statistically impossible)?
 Who, and how, validates no more than 16 children would be present at any time?
 Does the 16 children count include their own children or any children if they aren’t paid?
Note on parking, the home next door at 11609 Hidden Circle already has cars routinely parked across the
sidewalk – in violation of city ordinance - due to lack of their own parking space.

There are potential liability concerns today for neighbors stemming from the daycare.
 Homeowners insurance is designed to protect your home, its contents, and your family from covered
   risks. It generally does not cover the liability or property damage related to your neighbor's business.
 Business activity is separate. Your neighbor's daycare is considered a business activity, and it's the
   responsibility of the daycare owner to ensure they have the necessary insurance to cover any potential
   liabilities or damages related to their business.
 Insurance companies assess and manage their risk. Proximity to a daycare can be a factor that could increase
   that risk, possibly causing increases in rates and coverage changes.
                                                         4
   Who and how is insurance maintained – homeowner’s policy or separate business policy?
   Does, or will, Canny Kids or the Sariah Schmickrath household maintain sufficient insurance (coverage
    limit amounts and type) to hold any neighbors harmless if a child were to enter a neighbor’s yard / driveway,
    injuring themselves and how is this verified?
   How is insurance handled on public streets (Hidden Circle) if a child wanders onto the surface street, and
    forbid, is struck by a vehicle (resident, employee or customer vehicle)?
   Do Canny Kids employees (1099 or W-2 or ??) require their own liability insurance or are the potential
    liabilities covered by Sariah Schmickrath / Canny Kids policies?
   Has it been verified this business is already fully licensed, meets all criteria to operate legally and has
    proven business plans to meet municipal and legal requirements for expanded operations? (The Sandy City
    website states issued 08/2024 for up to eight children).
   How will the residential neighbors’ exposure be mitigated by the business and how is this verified and by
    who?

There are needed contact points.
 Is Sariah Schmickrath a confirmed property owner of 11617 Hidden Circle and is a confirmed resident as
   well as being a business owner (at least partial), and not possibly just running a business from this location?
            o This is presumed but unknown to the public and who is responsible to verify?
 Will the Sariah Schmickrath household disclose their license# identifier that can be linked to Sandy City, the
   county or state? The information is not on the Sandy City site.
 Who maintains responsibility and acts as a business conduit for any concerns, the Sariah Schmickrath
   household or Canny Kids or Sandy Police or Code Enforcement?
 Where is key resolution contact information displayed for problem resolution that can be readily accessed –
   telephone, email etc. – not general customer contact points?
 Does the business have problem resolution mechanisms in their existing business plan?
 What business hours of operation are being proposed with this expansion?
 Does the Sariah Schmickrath household have any property or business relationships with the Canny Kids
   business at 1669 E 11400 S Sandy, UT 84092?
 Is the 1669 E 11400 S Sandy, UT 84092 location also seeking expansion (currently listed in the Sandy City
   website as up to 8 children)?
 Are either of the two Sandy UT locations related to a possible Canny Kids location in Draper (per Google
   search - in a commercial setting along 12300 S. near 300 E)?
 All three locations advertise the same telephone number, (801) 890-0650, and the two Sandy locations also
   have the same email and website destination in Google searches.

I received the Sandy City Conditional Use Permit Request notification on 04/11/2025 via USPS. Mike
Scamardi - Sandy UT since 1994 and at the current Sandy address since 2004.




                                                        5
Sarah Stringham

From:                           mike.scamardi@gmail.com
Sent:                           Tuesday, April 29, 2025 9:00 AM
To:                             Sarah Stringham
Subject:                        RE: [EXTERNAL] Follow-up Conditional Use Permit SENT - Business Expansion by Sariah
                                Schmickrath 11617 Hidden Circle Sandy UT 8092



You’re great thank you. I have spoken with several neighbors the last two days, mostly homeowners in the
immediate affected Hidden Circle area (my home id directly behind the Daycare so my issues are excessive
noise & declining property values). Hopefully you can also squeeze this in. Again we appreciate your assistance
to ensure our voices are heard.
     Everyone noticed noise wasn’t raised as an issue under the Conditions of the initial Recommended
       Approval.
     While I have driven by and seen the excessive number of cars in Hidden Circle, I have gained a better
       understanding of their parking concerns.
     Sandy City needs to be cognizant; the Daycare is also “on demand for a variety of durations” meaning
       cars come and go all day long – not 16 kids dropped off 8:30am and picked up 5:30pm.
     When I mentioned the “24 vehicular trip per day maximum condition” neighbors responded the Daycare
       likely exceeds that already with 8 children and they shouldn’t be the ones to prove the issue, Sandy City
       should validate prior to expansion or soon thereafter and if the Condition wasn’t being met, revoke the
       Conditional Use Permit.
     Or if neighbors are required to monitor this existing issue, how do we prove to Sandy City the traffic
       maximum is not met – what evidentiary proof does Sandy require.

From: Sarah Stringham <sstringham@sandy.utah.gov>
Sent: Tuesday, April 29, 2025 8:32 AM
To: mike.scamardi@gmail.com
Subject: RE: [EXTERNAL] Follow-up Conditional Use Permit SENT - Business Expansion by Sariah Schmickrath 11617
Hidden Circle Sandy UT 8092

Hi Mike,

Thank you for your additional comments. They will be provided to the Planning Commission for their review.

Thanks,
Sarah


                             Sarah Stringham, AICP
                             Planner


                             10000 S. Centennial Pkwy. | Sandy, UT 84070
                             o: 801.568.6055 | f: 801.568.7278
                             sstringham@sandy.utah.gov

  sandy.utah.gov




                                                           1
Sarah Stringham

From:                             Shauna <shaunasowles@gmail.com>
Sent:                             Monday, April 28, 2025 8:45 PM
To:                               Sarah Stringham
Cc:                               Jennijoprince@gmail.com; jdj0823@gmail.com; damselfly55@gmail.com; Holly Taylor
Subject:                          [EXTERNAL] Re: Proposed Daycare Expansion on Hidden Circle– Impact on Residential
                                  Quality of Life

Follow Up Flag:                   Follow up
Flag Status:                      Flagged



  CAUTION: Do not click links, open attachments, or reply, unless you recognize the sender's email address!



Dear Ms. Stringham,

Thank you for allowing me this opportunity to express my deep concerns for Ms. Schmickrath’s business
expanding in her home. In Title 21 – Land Development Code Section 21-11-5 – Home Occupations, there seems
to be violations already and the expansion will just aggravate these violations.

First Sec 21-11-5 (a) - Purpose

(2) - Provide an opportunity for a home occupation to engage in the business of child care and other group child
activities and encourage this type of home occupation to draw clients/customers from their immediate
neighborhood.

       This business’ website has two locations and is advertising to the general public. The website states, “We
currently have several locations in Sandy, UT”. Does not appear to be in the spirit of this line item. It definitely
does not sound like a good neighbor helping their next door neighbor out.

(3) - Guide business activities which are not compatible with neighborhoods to appropriate commercial zones.

      Since they are advertising to the general public, Sandy City should be guiding this business to an
appropriate commercial zone.

(4) - Safeguard peace, quiet, and domestic tranquility within all residential neighborhoods. Protect residents from
the adverse effects of business uses being conducted in residential areas from noise, nuisance, traffic, fire
hazards, and other possible business uses that create significant impacts on a neighborhood.

        Several neighbors have stated that this business has created more noise, traffic, and nuisances. I agree, I
have lived here for almost 25 years and have never seen this much traffic on our circle. They come at all hours
during the weekday which cause a lot of stress with pets and quite frankly their owners. With expansion, it will
only get worse.

Second Sec. 21-11-5 (d) - Home Occupation Standards. All home occupations, licensed or not, shall comply
with the following standards at all times:


                                                          1
(16) - Neighborhood Disruptions Not Permitted. The home occupation shall not interfere or disrupt the peace,
quiet, and domestic tranquility of the neighborhood. The home occupation shall not create or be associated
with or produce odor, smoke, dust, heat, fumes, light, glare, noises or vibrations, excessive traffic, or other
nuisances, including interferences with radio and television reception, or any other adverse effects within the
neighborhood.

      Again, this section is being violated because of the excessive traffic, noises and other nuisances which is
coming directly from the operation of this business. Increasing this will only make it worse for the neighborhood.

Second Sec. 21-11-5 (e) - Category I Qualifications.

        In addition to the standards previously set forth above, all Category I home occupation businesses must
also comply with the provision of the qualifications outlined below. If a business finds that they are unable to
fully comply with all of the qualifications set forth, the applicant may pursue possible approval as a Category II
home occupation through the conditional use permit process before submitting the application for a home
occupation business license.

        Since they never were able to comply with the Category I home occupation standards, this business
should have sought Category II conditional use permit before submitting the application for a home occupation
business license; and therefore have been out of compliance from day one. What make us think as neighbors that
they will comply now with Sandy City codes.

(2) - Traffic. Vehicular traffic from business related visitors and customers shall not exceed that which normally
and reasonably occurs for a home in the neighborhood and shall be conducted so that the neighbors will not
be significantly impacted by its existence. The home occupation shall be limited to two business related
visitors or customers per hour, to a maximum of eight business related visitors or customers per day. Business
related deliveries or pickups shall not exceed two per day.

        Based on their business model, they can not comply with this requirement. If they can take up to 16 kids,
assuming one child per car, that would mean it would take 8 hours for them to get all the kids there and another 8
hours to let them leave. This is a best case scenario. If you have two dropping off at 8 to be picked up at 10, then
no-one can come at 10 to drop off. Or even worse, if 2 were dropped off at 8 one at 9 and all wanted to be picked
up at 10, then three would have to come which violates the code. This is what the neighbors have been
complaining about. There is no rhyme or reason to how this works in this cul-de-sac.

(5) - Maximum Floor Space. No more than 25 percent of the total main floor area or upper living levels of the
dwelling unit, nor, in the alternative, more than 50 percent of the total floor area of any basement of the home unit
shall be utilized for the home occupation.

       I have walked through that house, I seriously doubt that 16 children will be able to only occupy 25% of the
dwelling space. This by it’s nature makes it unsafe which is why this code exists.

Second Sec. 21-11-5 (f) - Category II, Conditional Use Permit Required. If a home occupation is able to comply
with all of the standards but is unable to comply with all of the Category I qualifications established above, the
proposed business activities must be reviewed by the Planning Commission and granted a conditional use
permit before pursuing a home occupation business license through the Business License Office.

       They can not meet the standards and they did not request the Category II conditional use
permit before they set up their business.

(3) - Child Day Care (d) A maximum of 24 vehicular stops per day for child drop off or pick up is permitted.


                                                          2
       There is no way they can guarantee this based on their business model as stated above.

I appreciate this opportunity to speak on behalf of our neighborhood. I know you are well aware of these, but I
wanted to address each that I thought were applicable. My biggest concern is there is no way for this business to
guarantee they won’t exceed the traffic pickup/drop offs to less than 24. And this business has created a loss of
tranquility for the immediate neighbors. They have violated the Sandy City codes initially and should not be
rewarded now at the direct expense of everyone around them. I can appreciate that they want to serve the
community, but they should do so in a commercially zone setting which is how their business is set up to operate.

Thank you for your consideration of my concerns,

Richard Sowles
11622 Hidden Cir.




                                                        3
Sarah Stringham

From:                         Holly Taylor <exprssurslf@gmail.com>
Sent:                         Monday, April 28, 2025 11:04 AM
To:                           Sarah Stringham
Cc:                           Jennijoprince@gmail.com; jdj0823@gmail.com; shaunasowles@gmail.com; damselfly55
                              @gmail.com
Subject:                      [EXTERNAL] Proposed Daycare Expansion – Impact on Residential Quality of Life

Follow Up Flag:               Follow up
Flag Status:                  Flagged



  CAUTION: Do not click links, open attachments, or reply, unless you recognize the sender's email address!




Dear Sarah and Sandy City Planning Commission,


I am writing to formally express my deep concerns regarding the proposed expansion of
the daycare located next door to my home. As a directly affected neighbor, I feel it is
important to share how this decision would negatively impact not only our household but
the broader community.


The proposed expansion allowing up to eight additional children will significantly
increase daily traffic, noise, and activity in what has been a quiet residential
neighborhood. This raises serious safety concerns, especially for the many children who
already live and play in the area. Our street was not designed to handle the frequent
vehicle trips and congestion that a larger daycare operation would bring.
Parking is already extremely limited in our area. We live at the end of a cul-de-sac right
next door to the daycare property, and parking is already limited to one parking space in
front of each house in our circle, even without daycare traffic. Allowing this expansion
would further strain the limited space available. It is important to note that this is not a
traditional daycare with set hours; it operates as a drop-in, hourly daycare that accepts
children at the last minute. This means that at any one time, there could be up to 16
children, resulting in far more vehicle trips than a standard daycare model. We could see
dozens of vehicles coming and going throughout the day, as children are dropped off for
a few hours and replaced by others, creating constant turnover, traffic, and congestion.
The business expansion may improve the Sariah Schmickrath household’s financial
situation — through revenue growth and potential tax advantages without the added cost
of leasing a separate commercial property — but it comes at a direct detriment to
                                                      1
neighboring households. Neighbors are being asked to bear the financial and lifestyle
burdens of this expansion, including the deprivation of quiet use and enjoyment of our
own homes, for the sole benefit of one household. This raises the important question:
Why should the surrounding neighbors be subjected to significant disruptions and loss of
peaceful enjoyment for the singular benefit of the daycare owner’s private business?
On a personal note, the increase in vehicle and foot traffic in front of our home has
already led to continual disturbances. Our dogs bark at the steady arrival and departure of
people, making it very difficult for my husband and me to work from home or conduct
meetings without constant background noise. It has also become a challenge to let our
dogs outside, as the presence of children in the adjacent backyard frequently triggers
more barking, escalating the noise problem for everyone nearby.
I respectfully ask that the Council prioritize the rights and well-being of the
neighborhood’s residents and deny the proposed daycare expansion. I urge you to uphold
the spirit of Sandy City’s home occupation and noise ordinances, protecting the quiet,
safe, residential character of our community.


Thank you very much for your time and thoughtful consideration.


Sincerely,
Holly Taylor
11609 S Hidden Circle, Sandy UT 84092.           801-243-9876




Sent from my iPhone




                                             2
Sarah Stringham

From:                         Kyle Whitney <kylemwhitney82@gmail.com>
Sent:                         Thursday, May 1, 2025 10:31 AM
To:                           Sarah Stringham
Subject:                      [EXTERNAL] #CUP03232025-006937-V1 Business Expansion by Sariah Schmickrath

Follow Up Flag:               Follow up
Flag Status:                  Flagged



  CAUTION: Do not click links, open attachments, or reply, unless you recognize the sender's email address!


Good Morning Ms Stringham,

I am a Sandy homeowner and I wanted to voice my opposition to the childcare business expansion
located at 11617 Hidden Circle, Sandy, UT.

Our once quiet residential neighborhood has become increasingly noisy at all hours of the day due to the
influx of children shrieking, crying, yelling and the lot.

I work remotely from home and this quiet neighborhood was a selling point when we relocated to Sandy
8+ years ago.

This has become a nuisance to conduct my normal work activities from the privacy of my home due to
the noise brought about by this childcare business.

Moreover, we were never made aware of such business actively trying to obtain a license until the
expansion, from 8 children to 16 children, because I would have voiced my concerns and opposition at
that time. In addition to their request for expansion the homeowners also have 4 children of their own so
at any given time they could have upwards of 20 children running amuck in their backyard.

We can no longer enjoy our once quiet yard or leave our windows open for fresh air due to the noise of the
children which in turn makes neighborhood dogs incessantly bark throughout the day and sometimes
evening.

I urge you to not approve the expansion. I purposely didn’t buy a home near a school for this reason.

Thank you for your time on this matter.

Sincerely,

Kyle Whitney
KyleMWhitney82@GMail.com




                                                      1
