                                                                                        10000 South Centennial

                                     Sandy City                                         Parkway Suite 231
                                                                                        Sandy, UT 84070

                                    Council Office                                      O| 801-568-7141
                                                                                        Sandy.Utah.Gov




                                            MEMORANDUM

                                           February 25, 2025

To:              City Council Members
CC:              Dustin Fratto, Council Executive Director
From:            Aaron Dekeyzer, Council Member At-large
Subject:         Recommendation for Council Work Sessions



Background and Overview:

In this memo I’m recommending the establishment of as needed work sessions prior to or immediately
following regular City Council meetings. These sessions would facilitate more in-depth discussion of
specific agenda items in a less formal setting.

Currently, many complex or potentially contentious agenda items are addressed during the formal City
Council meetings. While this process is necessary for final decisions, it can sometimes limit the
opportunity for comprehensive dialogue and collaborative problem-solving. A work session would
provide a dedicated forum more conducive to this type of discussion.

Around the Salt Lake Valley many other local government councils and boards regularly hold work
sessions. In fact, for many years the Sandy City Council, operating during and prior to the Dolan
Administration, held pre-meeting work sessions very similar to what I’m proposing in this memo. More
recently we, as a council, held two budget priority workshops where we had productive, informal, work-
session style deliberations around a table. By all accounts the Council seemed to find that format
beneficial.

Specifically, I propose the following format for these work sessions:

Time and frequency: Prior to or immediately following the regular City Council meeting, on an as needed
basis. I don’t believe that we need to hold a work session each Tuesday evening. However, on occasion I
think they would be beneficial. In this proposal the Chairperson will determine if a work session is
warranted while setting each meeting’s agenda. Work sessions held prior to the regular portion of the
meeting would still begin at 5:15 PM.

Location: The council living room area. I’d like authorization from the council to temporarily re-arrange
the council living room in order to better accommodate Work Sessions. At this time, no additional
funding will be needed to make this happen. I believe that this more intimate setting encourages open
communication and collaboration around a conference style table.

Agenda: The Chairperson, in consultation with the Council Executive Director, will develop the work
session agenda. Items suitable for work sessions would be those that might benefit from a less formal
setting to encourage more open dialogue, collaborative problem solving, preliminary exploration before
formal action, or some other improvement to council deliberations. This could include, but is not limited
to, policy discussions, budget reviews, or presentations from staff or community stakeholders.

Public Access: Work sessions will be open to the public, adhering to the Open and Public Meetings Act
(OPMA). This reinforces our commitment to transparency and community engagement. We will have a
small number of seats available in the council living room for the public. Additionally, we will stream the
meeting over Zoom and in the Council Chambers.

Recording: Work sessions will be recorded via Zoom Webinar and made available to the public. As Work
sessions will occur immediately prior to the business session both will be a part of the same recording.
This ensures a complete and accurate record of the discussions and ensures compliance with the OPMA.

These work sessions would serve several key purposes:

Enhanced Deliberation: The informal around a table setting would foster more open dialogue and allow
Council members to better explore different perspectives on complex issues.

Improved Collaboration: The work sessions would provide an opportunity for Council members and
other city officials to engage in constructive dialogue and collaborative problem-solving in a less formal
setting.

I believe that implementing work sessions would significantly benefit the City Council and the
community by promoting more informed decision-making, better opportunities for quality dialogue,
improved efficiency, and fostering greater transparency. I respectfully request that the City Council
consider this proposal and allow me to work with staff to develop the necessary procedures for a six-
month trial run.

Next steps:

Since this is the first reading of my proposal, I’d like to gather input from my colleagues on the Council.
During my second reading, I won’t be requesting a new policy nor a permanent amendment to any of
our Meeting Rules and Procedures. Because I’m proposing that we run a six-month trial, Instead I will be
requesting a temporary implementation beginning on April 1, 2025, and ending on September 30, 2025.
This time-period will allow for two different Chairs to test this process for three months each. Following
the trial period, should the Council decide to maintain the Work Sessions, we may opt to make them
permanent at that time.
