                                             - CODE OF ORDINANCES
                                         Title 4 - ADMINISTRATIVE CODE
                                   CHAPTER 4-4. DEPARTMENTAL ORGANIZATION




                         CHAPTER 4-4. DEPARTMENTAL ORGANIZATION

Sec. 4-4-1. Definitions.
     The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to
them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
      (1)   Department means the designation within the organizational structure of the administrative branch of
            City government which groups a broad classification of similar functions, services and duties.
      (2)   Division means a designation within the organizational structure of a department which groups similar
            functions, services and duties.
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 6-4-1; Ord. No. 17-06, 2-7-2017)


Sec. 4-4-2. Principles of Departmental Organization.
(a)   Notwithstanding their inclusion as part of this Code, departments, divisions, services, or offices may be
      added, modified or removed at the discretion of the Mayor, subject to budgetary authority of the City
      Council, to allow for administrative flexibility and to provide for the changing needs of the City.
(b)   A designation of any department, division, service or office shall not ensure staffing for any such portion of
      the administrative organization, but all staffing of the positions created by the sections of this title and by the
      Mayor as an exercise of the power granted to him them by this title shall be subject to the limitations and
      requirements of applicable budget and fiscal appropriations.
(c)   The Council retains the sole authority to create, consolidate, or abolish departments and divisions and to
      define or alter the functions and duties of each.
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 6-4-2; Ord. No. 17-06, 2-7-2017)


Sec. 4-4-3. Designation of Departments and Department Heads.
(a)   Subject to the discretion of the Mayor set forth in Section 4-4-2, the The following shall be departments
      within the executive branch of City government and the appointed officials as herein designated shall act as
      department heads and be responsible for the administrative direction of the respective departments:
      (1)   The Department of Finance and Information Technology shall be headed by the Director of Finance.
      (2)   The Legal Department shall be headed by the City Attorney.
      (3)   The Police Department shall be headed by the Chief of Police.
      (4)   The Fire Department shall be headed by the Fire Chief.
      (5)   The Department of Public Works shall be headed by the Director of Public Works.
      (6)   The Department of Parks and Recreation shall be headed by the Director of Parks and Recreation.
      (7)   The Department of Community Development shall be headed by the Director of Community
            Development.


Sandy, Utah, City Code                                                                     Created: 2025-10-25 20:37:14 [EST]

(Supp. No. 18)

                                                       Page 1 of 7
      (8)   The Department of Public Utilities shall be headed by the Director of Public Utilities.
(b)   A department head may assume the direction of assistants and employees of the department, subject to the
      limitations and requirements of the budget, appropriations, and applicable statutes and ordinances.
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 6-4-3; Ord. No. 17-06, 2-7-2017)


Sec. 4-4-4. Organizational Chart.
      The organization of the executive branch shall be graphically displayed in the annual budget.
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 6-4-4; Ord. No. 17-06, 2-7-2017)


Sec. 4-4-5. Departmental Functions and Duties of Appointed Officers.
(a)   Department of Finance and Information Technology.
      (1)   Functions. The Department of Finance and Information Technology shall be responsible for operations
            which shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
            a.    Budget preparation and control, purchasing, utility billing, accounts receivable and payable,
                  general ledger accounting and payroll, long-term financial planning, financial management and
                  reporting,
            b.    Information technology—the application of computers and telecommunications equipment and
                  systems, Geographic Information System ("GIS"), data processing, research, special management
                  reports and data center.
      (2)   Duties of Director of Finance. There is hereby established for Sandy City the position of Director of
            Finance. The position of Director of Finance shall serve as the Finance and Information Technology
            Director. The Director of Finance shall not, at any time, assume the duties of City Treasurer or of the
            Mayor's statutory duties as the Financial Officer. The Director of Finance shall:
            a.    Perform financial duties as provided in the Uniform Fiscal Procedures Act for Utah Cities; and
            b.    Perform such other duties as may be required by the Mayor or City Administrator and at all times
                  remain consistent with City ordinance and state statute.
      (3)   Duties of the City Treasurer. There is hereby established for Sandy City the position of City Treasurer,
            which position shall be assigned to the Department of Finance and Information Technology and shall
            be under the direction of that Department. The City Treasurer shall:
            a.    Perform financial duties as provided in the Uniform Fiscal Procedures Act for Utah Cities;
            b.    Follow the procedures and requirements of the State Money Management Act; and
            c.    Perform such other duties as may be required by the Department of Finance and Information
                  Technology consistent with City ordinance and state statute.
(b)   Legal Department.
      (1)   The City Attorney shall be the chief legal officer of the City and shall be responsible to the Mayor and
            City Administrator for the proper administration of the legal affairs of the City. Said attorney, or his
            designated assistants, shall have the following functions and duties:
            a.    Prosecute all charges of violation of municipal ordinances and regulations in the courts or
                  administrative tribunals and prosecute and defend, or supervise the prosecution and defense of,


                                                                                          Created: 2025-10-25 20:37:14 [EST]
(Supp. No. 18)

                                                      Page 2 of 7
                  all actions and appeals involving the City in all courts and before all boards, commissions and
                  administrative agencies;
            b.    Attend all City Council meetings, unless specifically excused therefrom;
            c.    Furnish legal advice, counsel and assistance to the Mayor, City Council and all other City officers,
                  boards, commissions and agencies, in relation to their duties and the business of the City;
            d.    Control and direct all legal services performed by special counsel for the City, who may be
                  retained from time to time to assist the City Attorney in providing legal services for the City;
                  provided, however, that the City Attorney shall not be responsible in any way for counsel who:
                  1.    Has not been specifically retained by the City Attorney;
                  2.    Is not paid from funds controlled by the City Attorney; or
                  3.    Is not under the actual direction of the City Attorney's Office;
            e.    Prepare or review all proposed ordinances and resolutions presented to the Mayor or City
                  Council;
            f.    Approve the form of all contracts entered into by the City; and
            g.    Prepare the necessary affidavits and verification on behalf of the City in any and all proceedings.
      (2)   The foregoing notwithstanding, the City Attorney shall not act, either personally or through his staff, as
            both a prosecutor or advocate before, and as an advisor to, any administrative department, board,
            commission, agency, official, or employee of the City. In cases where such a conflict shall arise, special
            counsel may be funded and appointed by the affected department, board, commission or agency. Any
            such special counsel shall not be subject to the control or direction of the City Attorney in such matter,
            and shall provide the legal service to the affected entity or person which cannot be provided by the
            City Attorney.
(c)   Police Department.
      (1)   Functions. The Police Department, by and through its sworn officers, shall pursue the following
            objectives:
            a.    Preserving the public peace by planning for enforcement of the laws of the City;
            b.    Preventing crime;
            c.    Detecting and arresting criminal offenders;
            d.    Protecting the rights of persons and property;
            e.    Regulating and controlling motorized, bicycle and pedestrian traffic;
            f.    Training of sworn personnel;
            g.    Providing and maintaining police records and communication systems; and
            h.    Supervising all functions of animal services as required by City ordinance.
      (2)   Powers and Duties. The Chief of Police, acting by himself, or by and through the sworn officers of the
            Police Department, shall:
            a.    Execute and return all writs and processes as directed by a court of competent authority, and in
                  criminal cases, quasi-criminal cases, or cases in violation of City ordinances, he may serve the
                  same in any part of Salt Lake County;




                                                                                           Created: 2025-10-25 20:37:14 [EST]
(Supp. No. 18)

                                                      Page 3 of 7
            b.   Suppress all riots, disturbances and breaches of the peace, apprehend all disorderly persons in
                 the City, and pursue and arrest any person fleeing from justice in any part of the State;
            c.   Apprehend any persons in the act of committing any offense against the laws of the state or
                 ordinances of the City and bring such persons before a court or other authority of competent
                 jurisdiction for examination and trial consistent with law;
            d.   Promote the prevention of accidents, crime and other incidents prohibited by statute or
                 ordinances;
            e.   Promote the protection of life and property, all pursuant to and as provided by statute and
                 ordinance; and
            f.   Have like powers as sheriffs or constables in similar cases.
(d)   Fire Department.
      (1)   The Fire Department shall:
            a.   Develop and administer public education and fire prevention programs;
            b.   Inspect buildings, vacant fields, fire hydrants and proposed building plans;
            c.   Develop, administer, and enforce all applicable state and City laws, ordinances, codes and
                 regulations pertaining to:
                 1.      The inspection of fire hydrants and proposed building plans;
                 2.      The prevention and extinguishing of fires;
                 3.      The storage and use of explosives and flammables;
                 4.      The maintenance and regulation of fire escapes and fire extinguishing apparatus; and
                 5.      The means and adequacy of building exits;
            d.   Investigate the causes, origins and circumstances of fires;
            e.   Develop and operate emergency fire alarm and communications systems;
            f.   Provide fire rescue and emergency services;
            g.   Provide an emergency medical program; and
            h.   Protect life and property.
(e)   Department of Public Works.
      (1)   Functions. The Department of Public Works shall have charge and be responsible for the:
            a.   Supervision of the design, construction, operation and maintenance of the public works of the
                 City, including streets, parkways, sidewalks, surface drainage ways, traffic control devices, solid
                 waste services, and similar public ways and facilities.
            b.   Functions performed by virtue of ordinance and statute by the City Engineer and for the
                 engineering records, which shall include certified copies of field notes, maps, plats, drawings,
                 deeds, dedications, final estimates, specifications, streets, sidewalks, and other engineering
                 work.
            c.   Acquisition and maintenance of the City vehicle fleet.
            d.   Design and construction of capital improvements projects constructed within Sandy City.



                                                                                          Created: 2025-10-25 20:37:14 [EST]
(Supp. No. 18)

                                                      Page 4 of 7
            e.    Promotion of the efficient and safe usage and the future development of the City's
                  transportation network through transportation engineering techniques in accordance with the
                  Master Plan of the City.
      (2)   City Engineer. The position of City Engineer shall be under the direction of the Director of the
            Department of Public Works. The City Engineer shall be a registered professional engineer within the
            State of Utah and shall have graduated, as a minimum requirement, with a B.S. or M.S. degree from an
            accredited four year college. The City Engineer shall be responsible for the:
            a.    Review, supervision and acceptance of all engineering, design, and construction work required by
                  or for the City, except as otherwise assigned to other departments or officers of the City.
            b.    Coordination and supervision of all construction work done within the public rights-of-way of the
                  City.
            c.    Maintenance of records of public improvements as prescribed by state statute, including, but not
                  limited to, maps, plans, plats, profiles, drawings, final estimates, specifications and contracts.
(f)   Department of Public Utilities.
      (1)   Functions. The Department of Public Utilities shall have charge and be responsible for:
            a.    Supervision of the design, construction (in cooperation with the City Engineer), and operation
                  and maintenance of utilities of the City, including, but not limited to, culinary water, irrigation
                  water, storm drains, flood control systems, streetlight systems, and other public utilities;
            b.    Promotion of efficient, safe and usable municipal utilities, and the future development of the
                  City's utilities through proper management and operational techniques, and through the proper
                  education of the City's residents;
            c.    Development and acquisition of utility rights, properties, shares, interests, etc., which currently
                  exist, or which may have reason to exist for the benefit of the City's residents; and
            d.    Coordination of all aspects of utilities within the City, including, but not limited to, master
                  planning, conjunctive management with other utilities, both public and private, site selection,
                  design, construction, maintenance, and operation.
      (2)   Utility Engineering. Under the direction of the City Engineer, the Department of Public Utilities
            engineering section shall be responsible to:
            a.    Review, supervise and accept all engineering and architectural design, and construct utility
                  facilities required by or for the City;
            b.    Coordinate and supervise all utility construction work within the public rights-of-way of the City;
                  and
            c.    Maintain records of utility improvements as prescribed by state statute, including, but not limited
                  to, maps, plans, plats, profiles, drawings, final estimates, specifications, and contracts.
(g)   Department of Parks and Recreation.
      (1)   The Department of Parks and Recreation shall:
            a.    Construct, operate, schedule and maintain all landscaped areas and park facilities owned or
                  managed by the City, including parks, buildings and structures within the park system, golf
                  course, cemetery, public trails, and public grounds;
            b.    Set up, take down, and assist in the operation of City events;
            c.    Organize, direct and provide recreational programs for City residents; and


                                                                                            Created: 2025-10-25 20:37:14 [EST]
(Supp. No. 18)

                                                       Page 5 of 7
            d.   Construct, operate, schedule, or maintain any other parks or recreation facilities as designated by
                 contract or interlocal agreement.
(h)   Department of Community Development.
      (1)   Functions. The Department of Community Development shall have charge of and be responsible for:
            a.   Providing the assistance necessary to the Administration, City Council and Planning Commission
                 in the development, adoption, and implementation of the City's General Land Use Plan and
                 Public Facility Plan;
            b.   The development, administration and enforcement of all attendant laws, codes, ordinances and
                 relevant regulations, including, but not limited to, future land use plans, zoning ordinances,
                 subdivision regulations, business license regulations, property maintenance, and building and
                 housing codes intended to serve the implementation of said plans;
            c.   Administration of their functions and duties in such a manner as to assist the Administration, City
                 Council and Planning Commission to implement and enforce the Development Code; and
            d.   Direction of business licensing, the Division of Building and Safety, and Division of Planning.
      (2)   Boards and Commissions. The following boards and commissions are hereby established for Sandy City
            and their organization, duties and powers are outlined elsewhere within this Code. These boards and
            commissions shall, where appropriate, serve as the Land Use Authority and coordinate with the
            executive branch of City government through the Director of Community Development, the Mayor and
            the City Administrator.
            a.   Planning and Zoning Commission;
            b.   Board of Adjustment.
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 6-4-5; Ord. No. 17-06, 2-7-2017)


Sec. 4-4-6. Economic Development.
(a)   The Economic Development Director and staff shall report to the City Administrator and are responsible to
      plan, promote, coordinate and implement all activities affecting economic development, including the
      following:
      (1)   Representing on behalf of the City economic development issues in the community over which the City
            has jurisdiction or advisory responsibility;
      (2)   Review the work of staff and make final recommendations on economic development;
      (3)   Coordinate economic development activities with City departments;
      (4)   Develop the economic/redevelopment portion of the City General Plan with the assistance of the
            Community Development Department;
      (5)   Valuate economic impact and feasibility of potential development projects;
      (6)   Market and promote the City;
      (7)   Assist and provide services to improve the business climate for local businesses;
      (8)   Aid existing and new businesses in finding adequate locations or relocations in the City;
      (9)   Aid in the preparation of the City Capital Improvement Program and Plan; and
      (10) Provide assistance in the purchase and disposition of real estate.


                                                                                         Created: 2025-10-25 20:37:14 [EST]
(Supp. No. 18)

                                                     Page 6 of 7
(b)   The Economic Development Director also serves as the Redevelopment Director of the Redevelopment
      Agency of Sandy City "RDA" as outlined in RDA bylaws and shall:
      (1)   Manage the Redevelopment Agency budgets subject to the limitations and requirements of applicable
            budget and fiscal appropriations by the RDA Board;
      (2)   Perform all related duties and others as may be imposed by statute, the RDA Executive Director, the
            RDA Board, or City Administrator;
      (3)   Conduct planning, qualification, and development of redevelopment project areas and the activities of
            the RDA; and
      (4)   Evaluate land, services and programs to provide recommendations for financial aid or incentives to
            make projects economically feasible and competitive.
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 6-4-6; Ord. No. 17-06, 2-7-2017)


Sec. 4-4-7. Support Services.
      The Chief Administrative Officer may delegate to one or more Assistant Chief Administrative Officers or
Department Head’s supervision of divisions, functions, services, and personnel of the City, including, but not
limited to, the following:
      (1)   Human resources, including such functions and duties as outlined in Chapter 4-5;
      (2)   Risk management;
      (3)   Emergency management;
      (4)   Facilities;
      (5)   The Division of Communications, including such functions and duties as outlined in Chapter 4-8;
      (6)   Community events;
      (7)   City Recorder's Office, including such functions and duties as outlined in U.C.A. 1953, § 10-6-137 and
            otherwise assigned;
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 6-4-7; Ord. No. 17-06, 2-7-2017)


Sec. 4-4-8. Emergency Interim Succession of City Officers.
      By July 1 of each year, each individual holding an office identified in this title shall designate at least three
emergency interim successors, specify their order of succession, and provide a list of those designated successors
to the Division of Emergency Management, as provided in U.C.A. 1953, § 53-2a-807.
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 6-4-8; Ord. No. 17-06, 2-7-2017)




                                                                                            Created: 2025-10-25 20:37:14 [EST]
(Supp. No. 18)

                                                       Page 7 of 7
