                                                 - CODE OF ORDINANCES
                                             Title 4 ADMINISTRATIVE CODE




                                      Title 4 ADMINISTRATIVE CODE

                             CHAPTER 4-1. PURPOSES AND PRINCIPLES

Sec. 4-1-1. Short Title.
      This title shall be known and may be cited as the "Administrative Code."
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 6-1-1)


Sec. 4-1-2. Purpose and Intent.
      The purpose and intent of this title is to:
      (1)   Establish and clarify the organizational structure of the City government.
      (2)   Identify appointed officials and specify their duties.
      (3)   Establish descriptions and parameters of departmental responsibilities.
      (4)   Establish specific definitions of the powers, duties and functions of the Mayor and City Administrator of
            the City.
      (5)   Establish the general parameters of the administration of human resources, purchasing and financial
            functions of the Administration.
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 6-1-2; Ord. No. 17-06, 2-7-2017)


Sec. 4-1-3. Administrative Organization.
      The City is organized under the Council-Mayor form of government found in U.C.A. 1953, title 10, ch. 3b, pt.
2 (U.C.A. 1953, § 10-3b-201 et seq.).
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 6-1-3; Ord. No. 17-06, 2-7-2017)


                                   CHAPTER 4-2. OFFICE OF MAYOR 1

Sec. 4-2-1. Qualifications and Term of Office.
      The Mayor has the qualifications and term of office provided by state law.




State law reference(s)—Mayor required, U.C.A. 1953, § 10-3b-301; election of officers, U.C.A. 1953, §§ 10-3-205,
1

     10-3-205.5; general powers of mayor, U.C.A. 1953, § 10-3b-202; powers of mayor in times of emergency,
     U.C.A. 1953, §§ 53-2a-205, 53-2a-208.


Sandy, Utah, City Code                                                                   Created: 2025-10-25 20:37:15 [EST]

(Supp. No. 18)

                                                      Page 1 of 18
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 6-2-1; Ord. No. 17-06, 2-7-2017)

State law reference(s)—Terms of elected municipal officers, U.C.A. 1953, § 10-3-202; eligibility requirements for
      officers, U.C.A. 1953, § 10-3-301.

Sec. 4-2-2. Council-Mayor Relationships.
(a)   The Mayor shall make all appointments to the Planning Commission and Board of Adjustment after having
      received the advice and consent of the City Council on each separate prospective appointment. The Mayor is
      hereby authorized and granted the power to fire, discharge, remove, suspend or otherwise appropriately
      discipline officers, department heads, administrative assistants and the City Administrator and other persons
      in the executive branch of City government, and to delegate this authority, consistent with the provisions of
      City ordinance, state statute, or other applicable law.
(b)   Council Members and their staff may request and receive information, advice or assistance from any
      administrative staff member. The Mayor may not prohibit Council Members' or their staff's direct interaction
      with administrative staff for information, advice or assistance, but may prescribe administrative procedures
      for Council Member requests requiring the completion of tasks or work products involving the expenditure
      of more than a nominal amount of time or funds. A Council Member receiving work product from staff shall
      promptly share such information or work product with all Council Members.
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 6-2-5; Ord. No. 17-06, 2-7-2017; Ord. No. 18-24, § 1(6-2-5), 9-20-2018)

State law reference(s)—Appointments by mayor, U.C.A. 1953, § 10-3b-202(1)(c)(iii), (1)(d)(ii); dismissal of
      appointees, U.C.A. 1953, § 10-3b-202(1)(d)(iii).

Sec. 4-2-3. Office of the Mayor.
      Subject to the limitations and requirements of applicable budget appropriations, the Mayor may hire such
assistants and officers who shall perform such functions and duties as may be assigned to them by the Mayor. In
order to provide proper staff and management services to the City and its departments, the Mayor is authorized to
establish within his office such divisions or sections as may seem necessary or proper for the purposes aforesaid.
From time to time the Mayor may:
      (1)   Abolish, change or reorganize the same;
      (2)   Abolish, change, reorganize or transfer functions, duties and services;
      (3)   Assign or reassign personnel to or between any section or division of the office of the Mayor; and
      (4)   Transfer functions, duties and services and assign or reassign personnel from, to, between and among
            any section or divisions of the Mayor's office.
Such actions by the Mayor may be on a temporary or permanent basis, subject to further change, reorganization
or reassignment as the Mayor may determine upon the advice of the City Administrator.
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 6-2-6; Ord. No. 17-06, 2-7-2017)


Sec. 4-2-4. Executive Committees.
       The Mayor may solicit the advice of private parties and may administratively establish, drawing from City
personnel and private parties, executive committees to assist and provide counsel in the administration of City
affairs. Any such committees so organized shall report to, be coordinated by, and have a liaison with the City
through the executive branch of City government in a manner designated by the Mayor.

                                                                                         Created: 2025-10-25 20:37:14 [EST]
(Supp. No. 18)

                                                      Page 2 of 18
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 6-2-7; Ord. No. 17-06, 2-7-2017)


                        CHAPTER 4-3. CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER2

Sec. 4-3-1. Chief Administrative Officer.
(a)   The Mayor shall be required, with the advice and consent of the City Council, to appoint a Chief
      Administrative Officer to exercise such powers of administration and perform such duties as the Mayor shall
      prescribe. The Chief Administrative Officer may also be known as and designated by the title of City
      Administrator or CAO.
(b)   The positions of Mayor and Chief Administrative Officer are intended to complement each other by
      combining strong political leadership with management expertise. For this reason, the Chief Administrative
      Officer shall be appointed on the basis of his ability and prior experience in the field of public administration,
      together with such other qualifications as may hereinafter be set forth.
(c)   The Chief Administrative Officer may be removed at the sole discretion of the Mayor.
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 6-3-1; Ord. No. 17-06, 2-7-2017)


Sec. 4-3-2. Interim Chief Administrative Officer.
(a)   Subject to U.C.A. 1953, § 10-3b-202, the Mayor may appoint an Interim Chief Administrative Officer to serve
      during the interim vacancy period between a municipal general election held to elect a Mayor and the day on
      which a new Mayor-elect begins the Mayor's term, provided that the Interim Chief Administrative Officer's
      term shall expire once a new Chief Administrative Officer is appointed by the new Mayor after the interim
      vacancy period has expired. This section does not apply, however, if the Mayor who holds office on the day
      of the municipal general election is re-elected to the Mayor's office for the following term.
(b)   A Mayor who appoints an Interim Chief Administrative Officer in accordance with Subsection (a) of this
      section, may not enter into an employment contract that contains an automatic renewal provision with that
      officer.
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 6-3-2; Ord. No. 17-06, 2-7-2017)


Sec. 4-3-3. Duties of Chief Administrative Officer.
      The Chief Administrative Officer shall have the power and duty to:
      (1)   Recommend to the Mayor the appointment of persons to the position of department head and to
            other employment positions within the City;
      (2)   Recommend the removal of persons such as department heads or other employees of the City;
      (3)   Approve administrative policies and rules;
      (4)   Act as the budget officer of the City when designated by the Mayor;
      (5)   Act through the Mayor to enforce the laws, ordinances and policies as established by the City;



State law reference(s)—Chief administrative officer, U.C.A. 1953, § 10-3b-202(1)(c)(iii)(A).
2




                                                                                           Created: 2025-10-25 20:37:14 [EST]
(Supp. No. 18)

                                                      Page 3 of 18
      (6)   Bind the City to financial agreements in emergency situations;
      (7)   Act as an official representative of the City administration in the Mayor's absence;
      (8)   Sign plats and agreements in behalf of the City in the Mayor's absence or as delegated by the Mayor;
      (9)   Recommend to the Mayor and implement upon adoption such projects as may increase productivity
            within the City government;
      (10) Carry out assignments as delegated by the Mayor;
      (11) Exercise such other powers and responsibilities as may be required to efficiently and effectively
           administer the City government on a day-to-day basis;
      (12) Except as provided in the Legislative and Judicial Codes, serve as the administrative head of all of the
           departments within the City government and all department heads and employees of the City shall be
           administratively responsible to him in the exercise of his duties herein;
      (13) Attend all meetings of the City Council unless specifically excused and recommend for adoption such
           measures as he shall deem expedient;
      (14) Hold regular office hours at the City offices and be responsible for the efficient resolution of problems
           arising in the course of governmental business carried on by the City;
      (15) Resolve actual and potential conflict among departments of the City government and maintain
           harmony conducive to proper functioning of the City administration;
      (16) Plan, direct and control, under the direction of the Mayor, the administrative affairs of the City; and
      (17) Within five days of notification or request, deliver to his successor in office all properties, books and
           effects of every description in his possession belonging to the City or appertaining to his office.
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 6-3-3; Ord. No. 17-06, 2-7-2017)


Sec. 4-3-4. Qualifications.
(a)   The City Administrator need not be a qualified elector or resident of Sandy City.
(b)   The City Administrator shall serve for an indefinite term of office, except that he shall be reappointed as
      required for other appointive offices by state statutes.
(c)   The City Administrator shall serve until such time as he may be removed by the Mayor.
(d)   The City Administrator shall be appointed on the basis of the following minimum qualifications, which shall
      include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Education. A Bachelor's Degree and a Master's Degree in public or business administration or related
            areas of study. Experience may be substituted on a year for year basis to fulfill the education
            requirements of the Master's Degree.
      (2)   Experience. Ten years' experience in public administration or related fields of administration.
      (3)   Knowledge. A knowledge of public administration theory and practice, administrative organization, and
            municipal laws, ordinances and regulations.
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 6-3-4; Ord. No. 17-06, 2-7-2017)




                                                                                           Created: 2025-10-25 20:37:14 [EST]
(Supp. No. 18)

                                                      Page 4 of 18
Sec. 4-3-5. Relationship with City Council.
(a)   The City Administrator, acting in the capacity of the Administrator of the day-to-day affairs of the City
      government, shall be directed in such administrative activity by the Mayor.
(b)   City Council members may not direct that the City Administrator appoint or remove a person from an
      executive City office, interfere in any way with an executive officer's performance of the officer's duties, or
      publicly or privately give orders to a subordinate of the Mayor.
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 6-3-5; Ord. No. 17-06, 2-7-2017)


Sec. 4-3-6. Duties of Assistant Chief Administrative Officers.
      Subject to the limitations and requirements of applicable budget and fiscal appropriations, the City
Administrator may appoint one or more Assistant CAOs to perform any of the duties of the City Administrator,
including, but not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Assist the City Administrator in his duties overseeing the operations of the City;
      (2)   Serve as the acting City Administrator in the absence of the City Administrator;
      (3)   Supervise any departments, functions, divisions, or personnel as assigned by the Mayor or City
            Administrator; and
      (4)   Complete special studies, assignments, project management, and other duties as assigned by the
            Mayor or City Administrator.
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 6-3-6; Ord. No. 17-06, 2-7-2017)


                         CHAPTER 4-4. DEPARTMENTAL ORGANIZATION

Sec. 4-4-1. Definitions.
     The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to
them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
      (1)   Department means the designation within the organizational structure of the administrative branch of
            City government which groups a broad classification of similar functions, services and duties.
      (2)   Division means a designation within the organizational structure of a department which groups similar
            functions, services and duties.
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 6-4-1; Ord. No. 17-06, 2-7-2017)


Sec. 4-4-2. Principles of Departmental Organization.
(a)   Notwithstanding their inclusion as part of this Code, departments, divisions, services, or offices may be
      added, modified or removed at the discretion of the Mayor, subject to budgetary authority of the City
      Council, to allow for administrative flexibility and to provide for the changing needs of the City.
(b)   A designation of any department, division, service or office shall not ensure staffing for any such portion of
      the administrative organization, but all staffing of the positions created by the sections of this title and by the


                                                                                           Created: 2025-10-25 20:37:14 [EST]
(Supp. No. 18)

                                                      Page 5 of 18
      Mayor as an exercise of the power granted to him by this title shall be subject to the limitations and
      requirements of applicable budget and fiscal appropriations.
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 6-4-2; Ord. No. 17-06, 2-7-2017)


Sec. 4-4-3. Designation of Departments and Department Heads.
(a)   Subject to the discretion of the Mayor set forth in Section 4-4-2, the following shall be departments within
      the executive branch of City government and the appointed officials as herein designated shall act as
      department heads and be responsible for the administrative direction of the respective departments:
      (1)   The Department of Finance and Information Technology shall be headed by the Director of Finance.
      (2)   The Legal Department shall be headed by the City Attorney.
      (3)   The Police Department shall be headed by the Chief of Police.
      (4)   The Fire Department shall be headed by the Fire Chief.
      (5)   The Department of Public Works shall be headed by the Director of Public Works.
      (6)   The Department of Parks and Recreation shall be headed by the Director of Parks and Recreation.
      (7)   The Department of Community Development shall be headed by the Director of Community
            Development.
      (8)   The Department of Public Utilities shall be headed by the Director of Public Utilities.
(b)   A department head may assume the direction of assistants and employees of the department, subject to the
      limitations and requirements of the budget, appropriations, and applicable statutes and ordinances.
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 6-4-3; Ord. No. 17-06, 2-7-2017)


Sec. 4-4-4. Organizational Chart.
      The organization of the executive branch shall be graphically displayed in the annual budget.
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 6-4-4; Ord. No. 17-06, 2-7-2017)


Sec. 4-4-5. Departmental Functions and Duties of Appointed Officers.
(a)   Department of Finance and Information Technology.
      (1)   Functions. The Department of Finance and Information Technology shall be responsible for operations
            which shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
            a.    Budget preparation and control, purchasing, utility billing, accounts receivable and payable,
                  general ledger accounting and payroll, long-term financial planning, financial management and
                  reporting,
            b.    Information technology—the application of computers and telecommunications equipment and
                  systems, Geographic Information System ("GIS"), data processing, research, special management
                  reports and data center.
      (2)   Duties of Director of Finance. There is hereby established for Sandy City the position of Director of
            Finance. The position of Director of Finance shall serve as the Finance and Information Technology



                                                                                          Created: 2025-10-25 20:37:14 [EST]
(Supp. No. 18)

                                                     Page 6 of 18
            Director. The Director of Finance shall not, at any time, assume the duties of City Treasurer or of the
            Mayor's statutory duties as the Financial Officer. The Director of Finance shall:
            a.    Perform financial duties as provided in the Uniform Fiscal Procedures Act for Utah Cities; and
            b.    Perform such other duties as may be required by the Mayor or City Administrator and at all times
                  remain consistent with City ordinance and state statute.
      (3)   Duties of the City Treasurer. There is hereby established for Sandy City the position of City Treasurer,
            which position shall be assigned to the Department of Finance and Information Technology and shall
            be under the direction of that Department. The City Treasurer shall:
            a.    Perform financial duties as provided in the Uniform Fiscal Procedures Act for Utah Cities;
            b.    Follow the procedures and requirements of the State Money Management Act; and
            c.    Perform such other duties as may be required by the Department of Finance and Information
                  Technology consistent with City ordinance and state statute.
(b)   Legal Department.
      (1)   The City Attorney shall be the chief legal officer of the City and shall be responsible to the Mayor and
            City Administrator for the proper administration of the legal affairs of the City. Said attorney, or his
            designated assistants, shall have the following functions and duties:
            a.    Prosecute all charges of violation of municipal ordinances and regulations in the courts or
                  administrative tribunals and prosecute and defend, or supervise the prosecution and defense of,
                  all actions and appeals involving the City in all courts and before all boards, commissions and
                  administrative agencies;
            b.    Attend all City Council meetings, unless specifically excused therefrom;
            c.    Furnish legal advice, counsel and assistance to the Mayor, City Council and all other City officers,
                  boards, commissions and agencies, in relation to their duties and the business of the City;
            d.    Control and direct all legal services performed by special counsel for the City, who may be
                  retained from time to time to assist the City Attorney in providing legal services for the City;
                  provided, however, that the City Attorney shall not be responsible in any way for counsel who:
                  1.    Has not been specifically retained by the City Attorney;
                  2.    Is not paid from funds controlled by the City Attorney; or
                  3.    Is not under the actual direction of the City Attorney's Office;
            e.    Prepare or review all proposed ordinances and resolutions presented to the Mayor or City
                  Council;
            f.    Approve the form of all contracts entered into by the City; and
            g.    Prepare the necessary affidavits and verification on behalf of the City in any and all proceedings.
      (2)   The foregoing notwithstanding, the City Attorney shall not act, either personally or through his staff, as
            both a prosecutor or advocate before, and as an advisor to, any administrative department, board,
            commission, agency, official, or employee of the City. In cases where such a conflict shall arise, special
            counsel may be funded and appointed by the affected department, board, commission or agency. Any
            such special counsel shall not be subject to the control or direction of the City Attorney in such matter,
            and shall provide the legal service to the affected entity or person which cannot be provided by the
            City Attorney.
(c)   Police Department.

                                                                                           Created: 2025-10-25 20:37:14 [EST]
(Supp. No. 18)

                                                     Page 7 of 18
      (1)   Functions. The Police Department, by and through its sworn officers, shall pursue the following
            objectives:
            a.   Preserving the public peace by planning for enforcement of the laws of the City;
            b.   Preventing crime;
            c.   Detecting and arresting criminal offenders;
            d.   Protecting the rights of persons and property;
            e.   Regulating and controlling motorized, bicycle and pedestrian traffic;
            f.   Training of sworn personnel;
            g.   Providing and maintaining police records and communication systems; and
            h.   Supervising all functions of animal services as required by City ordinance.
      (2)   Powers and Duties. The Chief of Police, acting by himself, or by and through the sworn officers of the
            Police Department, shall:
            a.   Execute and return all writs and processes as directed by a court of competent authority, and in
                 criminal cases, quasi-criminal cases, or cases in violation of City ordinances, he may serve the
                 same in any part of Salt Lake County;
            b.   Suppress all riots, disturbances and breaches of the peace, apprehend all disorderly persons in
                 the City, and pursue and arrest any person fleeing from justice in any part of the State;
            c.   Apprehend any persons in the act of committing any offense against the laws of the state or
                 ordinances of the City and bring such persons before a court or other authority of competent
                 jurisdiction for examination and trial consistent with law;
            d.   Promote the prevention of accidents, crime and other incidents prohibited by statute or
                 ordinances;
            e.   Promote the protection of life and property, all pursuant to and as provided by statute and
                 ordinance; and
            f.   Have like powers as sheriffs or constables in similar cases.
(d)   Fire Department.
      (1)   The Fire Department shall:
            a.   Develop and administer public education and fire prevention programs;
            b.   Inspect buildings, vacant fields, fire hydrants and proposed building plans;
            c.   Develop, administer, and enforce all applicable state and City laws, ordinances, codes and
                 regulations pertaining to:
                  1.     The inspection of fire hydrants and proposed building plans;
                  2.     The prevention and extinguishing of fires;
                  3.     The storage and use of explosives and flammables;
                  4.     The maintenance and regulation of fire escapes and fire extinguishing apparatus; and
                  5.     The means and adequacy of building exits;
            d.   Investigate the causes, origins and circumstances of fires;


                                                                                         Created: 2025-10-25 20:37:14 [EST]
(Supp. No. 18)

                                                     Page 8 of 18
            e.    Develop and operate emergency fire alarm and communications systems;
            f.    Provide fire rescue and emergency services;
            g.    Provide an emergency medical program; and
            h.    Protect life and property.
(e)   Department of Public Works.
      (1)   Functions. The Department of Public Works shall have charge and be responsible for the:
            a.    Supervision of the design, construction, operation and maintenance of the public works of the
                  City, including streets, parkways, sidewalks, surface drainage ways, traffic control devices, solid
                  waste services, and similar public ways and facilities.
            b.    Functions performed by virtue of ordinance and statute by the City Engineer and for the
                  engineering records, which shall include certified copies of field notes, maps, plats, drawings,
                  deeds, dedications, final estimates, specifications, streets, sidewalks, and other engineering
                  work.
            c.    Acquisition and maintenance of the City vehicle fleet.
            d.    Design and construction of capital improvements projects constructed within Sandy City.
            e.    Promotion of the efficient and safe usage and the future development of the City's
                  transportation network through transportation engineering techniques in accordance with the
                  Master Plan of the City.
      (2)   City Engineer. The position of City Engineer shall be under the direction of the Director of the
            Department of Public Works. The City Engineer shall be a registered professional engineer within the
            State of Utah and shall have graduated, as a minimum requirement, with a B.S. or M.S. degree from an
            accredited four year college. The City Engineer shall be responsible for the:
            a.    Review, supervision and acceptance of all engineering, design, and construction work required by
                  or for the City, except as otherwise assigned to other departments or officers of the City.
            b.    Coordination and supervision of all construction work done within the public rights-of-way of the
                  City.
            c.    Maintenance of records of public improvements as prescribed by state statute, including, but not
                  limited to, maps, plans, plats, profiles, drawings, final estimates, specifications and contracts.
(f)   Department of Public Utilities.
      (1)   Functions. The Department of Public Utilities shall have charge and be responsible for:
            a.    Supervision of the design, construction (in cooperation with the City Engineer), and operation
                  and maintenance of utilities of the City, including, but not limited to, culinary water, irrigation
                  water, storm drains, flood control systems, streetlight systems, and other public utilities;
            b.    Promotion of efficient, safe and usable municipal utilities, and the future development of the
                  City's utilities through proper management and operational techniques, and through the proper
                  education of the City's residents;
            c.    Development and acquisition of utility rights, properties, shares, interests, etc., which currently
                  exist, or which may have reason to exist for the benefit of the City's residents; and
            d.    Coordination of all aspects of utilities within the City, including, but not limited to, master
                  planning, conjunctive management with other utilities, both public and private, site selection,
                  design, construction, maintenance, and operation.

                                                                                            Created: 2025-10-25 20:37:14 [EST]
(Supp. No. 18)

                                                      Page 9 of 18
      (2)   Utility Engineering. Under the direction of the City Engineer, the Department of Public Utilities
            engineering section shall be responsible to:
            a.    Review, supervise and accept all engineering and architectural design, and construct utility
                  facilities required by or for the City;
            b.    Coordinate and supervise all utility construction work within the public rights-of-way of the City;
                  and
            c.    Maintain records of utility improvements as prescribed by state statute, including, but not limited
                  to, maps, plans, plats, profiles, drawings, final estimates, specifications, and contracts.
(g)   Department of Parks and Recreation.
      (1)   The Department of Parks and Recreation shall:
            a.    Construct, operate, schedule and maintain all landscaped areas and park facilities owned or
                  managed by the City, including parks, buildings and structures within the park system, golf
                  course, cemetery, public trails, and public grounds;
            b.    Set up, take down, and assist in the operation of City events;
            c.    Organize, direct and provide recreational programs for City residents; and
            d.    Construct, operate, schedule, or maintain any other parks or recreation facilities as designated by
                  contract or interlocal agreement.
(h)   Department of Community Development.
      (1)   Functions. The Department of Community Development shall have charge of and be responsible for:
            a.    Providing the assistance necessary to the Administration, City Council and Planning Commission
                  in the development, adoption, and implementation of the City's General Land Use Plan and
                  Public Facility Plan;
            b.    The development, administration and enforcement of all attendant laws, codes, ordinances and
                  relevant regulations, including, but not limited to, future land use plans, zoning ordinances,
                  subdivision regulations, business license regulations, property maintenance, and building and
                  housing codes intended to serve the implementation of said plans;
            c.    Administration of their functions and duties in such a manner as to assist the Administration, City
                  Council and Planning Commission to implement and enforce the Development Code; and
            d.    Direction of business licensing, the Division of Building and Safety, and Division of Planning.
      (2)   Boards and Commissions. The following boards and commissions are hereby established for Sandy City
            and their organization, duties and powers are outlined elsewhere within this Code. These boards and
            commissions shall, where appropriate, serve as the Land Use Authority and coordinate with the
            executive branch of City government through the Director of Community Development, the Mayor and
            the City Administrator.
            a.    Planning and Zoning Commission;
            b.    Board of Adjustment.
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 6-4-5; Ord. No. 17-06, 2-7-2017)




                                                                                           Created: 2025-10-25 20:37:14 [EST]
(Supp. No. 18)

                                                     Page 10 of 18
Sec. 4-4-6. Economic Development.
(a)   The Economic Development Director and staff shall report to the City Administrator and are responsible to
      plan, promote, coordinate and implement all activities affecting economic development, including the
      following:
      (1)   Representing on behalf of the City economic development issues in the community over which the City
            has jurisdiction or advisory responsibility;
      (2)   Review the work of staff and make final recommendations on economic development;
      (3)   Coordinate economic development activities with City departments;
      (4)   Develop the economic/redevelopment portion of the City General Plan with the assistance of the
            Community Development Department;
      (5)   Valuate economic impact and feasibility of potential development projects;
      (6)   Market and promote the City;
      (7)   Assist and provide services to improve the business climate for local businesses;
      (8)   Aid existing and new businesses in finding adequate locations or relocations in the City;
      (9)   Aid in the preparation of the City Capital Improvement Program and Plan; and
      (10) Provide assistance in the purchase and disposition of real estate.
(b)   The Economic Development Director also serves as the Redevelopment Director of the Redevelopment
      Agency of Sandy City "RDA" as outlined in RDA bylaws and shall:
      (1)   Manage the Redevelopment Agency budgets subject to the limitations and requirements of applicable
            budget and fiscal appropriations by the RDA Board;
      (2)   Perform all related duties and others as may be imposed by statute, the RDA Executive Director, the
            RDA Board, or City Administrator;
      (3)   Conduct planning, qualification, and development of redevelopment project areas and the activities of
            the RDA; and
      (4)   Evaluate land, services and programs to provide recommendations for financial aid or incentives to
            make projects economically feasible and competitive.
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 6-4-6; Ord. No. 17-06, 2-7-2017)


Sec. 4-4-7. Support Services.
     The Chief Administrative Officer may delegate to one or more Assistant Chief Administrative Officers
supervision of functions, services, and personnel of the City, including, but not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Human resources, including such functions and duties as outlined in Chapter 4-5;
      (2)   Risk management;
      (3)   Emergency management;
      (4)   Facilities;
      (5)   Communications;



                                                                                         Created: 2025-10-25 20:37:14 [EST]
(Supp. No. 18)

                                                    Page 11 of 18
      (6)   Community events;
      (7)   City Recorder's Office, including such functions and duties as outlined in U.C.A. 1953, § 10-6-137 and
            otherwise assigned.
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 6-4-7; Ord. No. 17-06, 2-7-2017)


Sec. 4-4-8. Emergency Interim Succession of City Officers.
      By July 1 of each year, each individual holding an office identified in this title shall designate at least three
emergency interim successors, specify their order of succession, and provide a list of those designated successors
to the Division of Emergency Management, as provided in U.C.A. 1953, § 53-2a-807.
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 6-4-8; Ord. No. 17-06, 2-7-2017)


                                  CHAPTER 4-5. HUMAN RESOURCES

Sec. 4-5-1. Scope.
      This chapter shall create and establish a comprehensive personnel management system for Sandy City.
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 6-5-1; Ord. No. 17-06, 2-7-2017)


Sec. 4-5-2. Statement of Policy.
      The following principles and policies are hereby established:
      (1)   Employment and promotion in the City government shall be based on qualifications and performance
            without regard to any class protected by applicable Federal, State, or local employment laws.
      (2)   Just and equitable incentives and conditions of employment shall be established and maintained to
            promote efficiency and economy in the operation of the City government.
      (3)   The system shall provide the means to recruit, select, develop and maintain an effective and
            responsive work force, and shall provide plans for employee hiring and advancement, training and
            career development, job classification, salary administration, retirement, fringe benefits, discipline,
            discharge and other related activities.
      (4)   Continued employment of employees, subject to U.C.A. 1953, §§ 10-3-1105 and 10-3-1106, shall be
            subject to good behavior, satisfactory work performance, the necessity for performance of the work,
            and the availability of funds.
      (5)   Positions having similar duties and responsibilities shall be classified and compensated within a
            uniform compensation range.
      (6)   Appointments, promotions, and other actions shall be based on qualifications, systematic test
            evaluations, or documented performance.
      (7)   The maintenance of high morale shall be achieved by fair and just administration of this chapter and by
            every consideration of the rights and interests of employees consistent with the best interest of the
            public and the City.
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 6-5-2; Ord. No. 17-06, 2-7-2017)


                                                                                            Created: 2025-10-25 20:37:14 [EST]
(Supp. No. 18)

                                                      Page 12 of 18
Sec. 4-5-3. Appointed Officers and Employees.
(a)   Except as provided in Subsection (b) below, each employee of the City shall hold employment without
      limitation of time, being subject to discharge, suspension of over two days without pay, or involuntary
      transfer to a position with less remuneration only as provided in Section 4-5-4 of the Revised Ordinances of
      Sandy City.
(b)   Subsection (a) does not apply to the following officers and employees of the City:
      (1)   Category 1 Appointed Officers which include those in the positions of: Deputy to the Mayor, City
            Council executive director, senior advisor to the Mayor, Mayor's office manager, police chief, fire chief,
            deputy fire chief, deputy police chief, chief administrative officer, city attorney, public utilities director,
            public works director, community development director, finance and information technology director,
            economic development director, parks and recreation director, assistant chief administrative officers,
            deputy city attorney, city engineer, deputy finance and information technology director, assistant
            public works director, assistant parks and recreation director, justice court judge, assistant community
            development director, city treasurer, city recorder, and other Category 1 Appointed Officers as stated
            annually in the staffing and compensation plan approved by the City Council in the annual budget;
      (2)   Category 2 Appointed Officers which include those in the positions of: Police captain, city prosecutor,
            human resources director, risk manager/fund counsel, information technology director, public utilities
            operations manager, public utilities engineering manager, and other Category 2 Appointed Officers as
            stated annually in the staffing and compensation plan approved by the City Council in the annual
            budget;
      (3)   Category 3 Appointed Officers which include those who have been hired under formal written
            agreement for specific terms based on temporary and exceptional workload demands or because
            funding is based upon grants or other identified revenues of limited duration;
      (4)   Probationary, part-time, and seasonal employees as defined by City policy;
      (5)   Elected officials; and
      (6)   Such other officers which may be classified as appointed officers from time to time by the Mayor or
            other person or body exercising executive power in the City.
(c)   The Mayor, at his sole discretion for Executive branch employees, may enter into written agreements at the
      time of hire with officers and employees specified in subsection (b)(1) and (b)(2) establishing a severance
      payment or allowing for their return to a prior position of employment provided that:
      (1)   No such agreement shall be effective unless in writing and attested by the City Recorder;
      (2)   No severance payment shall exceed three months' pay without express approval by the City Council;
      (3)   The officer or employee has at least one year of full-time employment with Sandy City; and
      (4)   Officers or employees with less than one-year employment with Sandy City may not exceed 25 percent
            of the pay earned for each week of employment during the first year of employment.
(d)   All severance agreements authorized by the Mayor must be disclosed in writing to the City Council within
      one week of execution.
(e)   Officers identified in subsections (b)(3), (4), (5), and (6) are not eligible for severance and may not enter into
      written agreements establishing a severance agreement.
(f)   The Council may authorize an exception to the requirements of subsection (b) upon written request of the
      Mayor.


                                                                                             Created: 2025-10-25 20:37:14 [EST]
(Supp. No. 18)

                                                      Page 13 of 18
(g)   Nothing in this section or Section 4-5-4 of the Revised Ordinances of Sandy City may be construed to limit the
      City's ability to define cause for an employee termination or reduction in force either by general policy or
      through written directives to individual employees.
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 6-5-3; Ord. No. 17-06, 2-7-2017; Ord. No. 19-17, § 1(Exh. A), 7-30-2019)


Sec. 4-5-4. Appeal Procedures.
      The Mayor shall promulgate procedures to provide for the creation and function of an employee appeals
board as required by U.C.A. 1953, §§ 10-3-1105 and 10-3-1106, and shall conform City procedures to such statutes
as they may be amended or succeeded from time to time. City appeal procedures shall specify the method and
manner of choosing the members of the appeal board, the number of members, the designation of their terms of
office, and the procedure for conducting an appeal and the standard of review. Such procedures may be adopted
in the City's Operations Manual or summarized annually in an Employee Handbook.
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 6-5-4; Ord. No. 17-06, 2-7-2017)


Sec. 4-5-5. Legal Limitations.
      City appeal procedures are not intended to establish legal interests in employment or employment benefits
and the City hereby undertakes no additional obligations beyond relevant statutory or other applicable law.
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 6-5-5; Ord. No. 17-06, 2-7-2017)


Sec. 4-5-6. Human Resources Director.
       The Human Resources Director of Sandy City shall be responsible for the administration and technical
direction of the City's human resource management system. The Director shall be appointed by the Mayor upon
the recommendation of the City Administrator, with the advice and consent of the City Council. He will report
directly to the City Administrator, or his designee, and be subject to the duties and guidance of that person in the
fulfillment of his duties. His duties shall consist of the following:
      (1)   To administer with assistance and advice of the Mayor, City Council and City Administrator, the human
            resource management system as set forth in this section, and the rules and regulations adopted
            hereunder. Also, to prepare, recommend, and enforce policies and procedures for personnel
            administration.
      (2)   To encourage and exercise leadership in the development of an effective personnel administration
            within all departments of the City government.
      (3)   To advise the City Administrator, Mayor and City Council with regard to utilization of human resources
            throughout the City.
      (4)   To foster and develop programs for the improvements of employees' effectiveness, including training,
            safety, health counseling and other human resource areas.
      (5)   To prepare, recommend, and maintain a Position Classification Plan for all positions in the municipal
            service based on the level and difficulty of duties performed and responsibilities assumed.
      (6)   To prepare and recommend to the City Council a pay plan for all municipal employees.
      (7)   To direct the procedures for recruitment, testing, selection and hiring of all City employees.




                                                                                          Created: 2025-10-25 20:37:14 [EST]
(Supp. No. 18)

                                                    Page 14 of 18
      (8)   To develop and administer a program of employee performance evaluations which can serve as a basic
            factor in such personnel transactions as determining salary increments or increases by meritorious
            services, promotions, establishing order of layoffs due to lack of funds or work, reinstatements,
            discharge or transfers.
      (9)   To establish a plan for resolving employee grievances and complaints prior to appeals.
      (10) To coordinate procedures for disciplinary actions, such as suspensions, demotions in rank or grade, or
           discharge, and to provide for presentation of charges, hearings and appeals for all employees.
      (11) To certify all employees for payroll purposes and other benefits.
      (12) To make annual reports to the City Council regarding the condition of the overall personnel
           management system.
      (13) To compute for budgetary purposes the annual salary costs for all departments.
      (14) To supervise, develop, and maintain personnel systems, forms, procedures, and methods of
           recordkeeping and maintain a roster of all persons in the City service.
      (15) To establish procedures for the appointment, promotion, demotion, discipline and other actions
           affecting persons in City service.
      (16) To create and implement programs to increase the personnel relation efforts of the City in a positive
           manner and project a cheerful public image.
      (17) To recommend contractual arrangements with any qualified person or agency for the performance of
           such technical services as may be desired in the establishment and operation of the personnel system.
      (18) To develop, administer and coordinate the training program for City employees.
      (19) To develop and maintain other practices and procedures necessary to the administration of the
           personnel system.
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 6-5-6; Ord. No. 17-06, 2-7-2017)


Sec. 4-5-7. The Department Head.
       Except as provided in the Legislative and Judicial Codes, department heads and Assistant Chief
Administrative Officers shall have the power to appoint, promote, demote, instigate disciplinary action, terminate,
evaluate the performance and perform other personnel actions within their particular assigned departments,
divisions, offices, and functions, that are consistent with this chapter and the rules and regulations developed
hereunder.
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 6-5-7; Ord. No. 17-06, 2-7-2017)


Sec. 4-5-8. Appointments.
      Whenever a vacancy or job opening for a non-appointed position is to be filled, selections shall be made
from a pool of qualified candidates submitted by the Human Resources Office. Only the most qualified persons will
be considered based on the job-related tests, examinations, or selection techniques, to the extent permitted by
law. Offers of City employment shall be made from these qualified applicants. The Mayor may adopt policies at
variance with this section for interns and seasonal, part-time, and temporary employees.
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 6-5-8; Ord. No. 17-06, 2-7-2017)



                                                                                        Created: 2025-10-25 20:37:14 [EST]
(Supp. No. 18)

                                                   Page 15 of 18
Sec. 4-5-9. Rules and Regulations.
(a)   Personnel rules and regulations, or revisions thereof, may be adopted by the Mayor and upon such adoption
      shall be filed with the City Recorder and Human Resources Office. An Employee Handbook shall be
      distributed annually and shall be available for public inspection during normal business hours. Rules and
      regulations, job descriptions, and Employee Handbooks may cover specific procedures and policies
      consistent with policies as established by the City Council.
(b)   Personnel rules and regulations so adopted may be revised or amended at any time. No personnel rule or
      regulation, nor any Employee Handbook may create an express or implied contract of any kind.
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 6-5-9; Ord. No. 17-06, 2-7-2017)


Sec. 4-5-10. Acts Prohibited.
(a)   No person shall willfully make any false statement, certificate, mark, rating or report in regard to an
      application, test, certification, evaluation, or appointment held or made under the personnel system hereby
      established, or in any manner commit any fraud or other act for the purpose of preventing a proper or
      impartial execution of said personnel system.
(b)   No person seeking employment or promotion shall give or pay any money or other thing of value, or render
      services to any person for, or on account of, or in connection with, his test, appointment, proposed
      appointment, promotion, proposed promotion, or for any other employment advantage with the City.
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 6-5-10; Ord. No. 17-06, 2-7-2017)


Sec. 4-5-11. Invalidity of Acts.
      Any act which is in violation of the provisions of this chapter is invalid and shall be set aside.
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 6-5-11; Ord. No. 17-06, 2-7-2017)


Sec. 4-5-12. Agreements and Cooperation with other Governmental Agencies.
(a)   The Mayor may, as permitted by law, enter into agreements with any Federal, State or local government
      organizations for receipt of grants or services, including material or equipment which is designed to
      strengthen personnel administration and train municipal employees, or to improve specific access of persons
      to the human resource system hereby established.
(b)   The Human Resources Director, acting in behalf of the City, may cooperate with other governmental
      agencies charged with public personnel administration in conducting personnel tests, recruiting personnel,
      training personnel, establishing lists from which candidates shall be certified for appointment, and for the
      interchange of personnel and employee benefits.
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 6-5-12; Ord. No. 17-06, 2-7-2017)


Sec. 4-5-13. Employee Organizations.
      All employees shall have the right to organize, join and participate or to refuse to organize, join or participate
in any employee organization without fear of penalty or reprisal.
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 6-5-13; Ord. No. 17-06, 2-7-2017)

                                                                                             Created: 2025-10-25 20:37:14 [EST]
(Supp. No. 18)

                                                      Page 16 of 18
Sec. 4-5-14. City Volunteers.
      The rights of City volunteers shall be limited to those established by the Volunteer Government Workers Act
(U.C.A. 1953, § 67-20-1 et seq.). No person shall be considered a City volunteer unless approved in writing by the
Mayor or his authorized representative, and by the City's Human Resources Director.
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 6-5-14; Ord. No. 17-06, 2-7-2017)


                                           CHAPTER 4-6. ETHICS

Sec. 4-6-1. Ethical Conduct Governed by the Municipal Officers' and Employees' Ethics Act.
      The ethical conduct of all elected officials, officers, agents and employees of the City shall be governed by
the provisions of the Municipal Officers' and Employees' Ethics Act (U.C.A. 1953, § 10-3-1301 et seq.) and other
applicable law.
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 6-6-1; Ord. No. 17-06, 2-7-2017)


Sec. 4-6-2. Prohibitions on Employment of Relatives.
      Prohibitions on the employment of relatives by the City shall be governed by U.C.A. 1953, § 52-3-1.
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 6-6-2; Ord. No. 17-06, 2-7-2017)


                               CHAPTER 4-7. SANDY CITY ARTS GUILD

Sec. 4-7-1. Creation and Purpose.
      There is hereby recognized a separate, nonprofit corporation known as the Sandy City Arts Guild ("Guild") to
supplement, expand and broaden the community arts within the City and the State of Utah. The Guild is a wholly-
owned City instrumentality which is a separate entity and which is organized and operated exclusively for purposes
described in Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, or the corresponding provisions of any future
United States Internal Revenue Law. The Guild's budget, purposes and priorities shall at all times be consistent
with those set by the Sandy City Council.
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 6-7-1; Ord. No. 17-06, 2-7-2017)


Sec. 4-7-2. Composition.
     The Guild shall consist of a Board of Trustees, which shall be appointed by the Mayor with the advice and
consent of the City Council; a Chairperson and CEO ("CEO"), and such City personnel and volunteers as may be
deemed necessary by the CEO to assist the Guild. The volunteers shall be assigned under Section 4-5-14.
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 6-7-2; Ord. No. 17-06, 2-7-2017)




                                                                                          Created: 2025-10-25 20:37:15 [EST]
(Supp. No. 18)

                                                     Page 17 of 18
Sec. 4-7-3. Bylaws.
       Provisions for the regulations of the internal affairs of the Guild shall be set forth in the Guild's bylaws.
(Revised Ords. 1978, § 6-7-3; Ord. No. 17-06, 2-7-2017)

                                CHAPTER 4-9. Reporting Requirements

Sec. 4-9-1. General Fund Purchasing Power Analysis
(a)    Annual Requirement. In addition to all other requirements set forth by the Uniform Fiscal Procedures Act for
       Utah Cities (Utah Code § 10-6-101 et seq.), the Budget Officer shall include a "General Fund Purchasing
       Power Analysis" (“Analysis”) within the tentative budget.
(b)    Presentation and Publication. The Budget Officer shall:
      (1) Present the Analysis to the City Council with the Tentative Budget, at or before the first regularly
          scheduled city council meeting in May of each year.
      (2) Clearly identify and publish the Analysis within the Tentative Budget.
(c)    Content of Analysis. The General Fund Purchasing Power Analysis shall include:
      (1) CPI Impact Report: A report detailing how the purchasing power of the General Fund has been impacted
          by inflation. As a measure of inflation, the report should use the Consumer Price Index for all Urban
          Consumers, most applicable region (“CPI”) over the most recent twelve (12) month period.
      (2) Purchasing Power Maintenance Projection: A calculation showing the total amount of new property tax
          revenue, and the associated property tax rate adjustment, that would need to be generated in the
          upcoming fiscal year to maintain the General Funds existing purchasing power, based on the CPI Impact
          Report.
(d)    Purpose. The purpose of this reporting is strictly for informational and planning purposes to assist the City
       Council and public in understanding the inflationary gap between current revenues and the cost of
       maintaining existing service levels over time.




                                                                                              Created: 2025-10-25 20:37:15 [EST]
(Supp. No. 18)

                                                       Page 18 of 18
