                                             - CODE OF ORDINANCES
                                         Title 4 - ADMINISTRATIVE CODE
                                     CHAPTER 4-9. Division of Communications




                                                 [New Section]

                            CHAPTER 4-8. Division of Communications

Sec. 4-8-1. Scope.
This chapter shall establish and define the functions and duties of the Divisions of Communications

Sec. 4-8-2. Functions and Duties
The Division of Communications shall have charge of and be responsible for:
(a)    Public Information and Media Relations.
(b)    Digital Media and Content Management, including the City website.
(c)    Crisis Communications and, at the discretion of the Emergency Manger, Emergency Communications.
(d)    Community Engagement and Branding.
(e)    Inter-Departmental Support. Provide strategic communication consulting and creative services to the
       mayor’s office and to all City departments to support specific projects, infrastructure updates, or public
       programs.
(f)    Legislative Support. The Division shall provide equitable support to the City Council for, but not limited to,
       the communication of legislative actions, media relations, council webpage management, the production of
       multimedia content, the promotion of Council-sponsored events, the publication of council newsletters, and
       assistance with council specific communications initiatives.
(g)    Development and Execution of the Annual Strategic Communications Plan. Annually the Communications
       Division shall create or update the Annual Strategic Communications Plan for the City. At minimum, the plan
       shall include:
       (1) Situation Analysis. An Assessment of the current communication environment, including an audit of
           existing digital platform performance.
       (2) Data-Driven Objectives. Specific, measurable communications goals for the year, justified by the
           previous year’s performance outcomes or identified community needs.
       (3) Audience Segmentation. An analysis of city demographics and a description of the specific
           communication channels proven to most effectively reach those segments.
       (4) Resource Allocation. A budget proposal that aligns expenditures with the high-priority goals identified in
           the Data-Driven Objectives.
       (5) Evidence of Efficacy. For any new major initiative or significant shift in strategy, the Division shall
           provide supporting evidence, such as industry best practices, pilot program data, or resident survey
           results, to justify the proposed approach.
(h)    Provide Regular Reports to the City Council for Legislative Review
       (1) At least once per calendar year the Division shall present the Annual Strategic Communications Plan to
           the City Council at a City Council Meeting.


Sandy, Utah, City Code                                                                    Created: 2025-10-25 20:37:15 [EST]

(Supp. No. 18)

                                                      Page 1 of 2
       (2) The Division shall provide, in writing, a monthly briefing to the City Council. This briefing shall include, at
           minimum:
                        i. A summary of major media inquiries and the resulting coverage.
                       ii. Milestones in achieving the Data-Driven Objectives found within the Annual Strategic
                           Communications Plan.
                       iii. A summary of total number of hours spent providing inter-departmental support,
                            delineated by department.
(i)    Report Major Media Actions. The Division shall provide the City Council with written notification as early as
       possible, but at least 2-hours prior to:
       (1) The distribution of any press release or official statements of significance from the City or a
           department of the City.
       (2) Any press conference or media briefing organized by the City or a department of the City.

Sec. 4-8-3. Director of Communications.
The Director of Communications shall be appointed by the Mayor upon the recommendation of the City
Administrator, with the advice and consent of the City Council.




                                                                                            Created: 2025-10-25 20:37:14 [EST]
(Supp. No. 18)

                                                       Page 2 of 2
