                                                                                   10000 South Centennial

                                   Sandy City                                      Parkway Suite 231
                                                                                   Sandy, UT 84070

                                  Council Office                                   O| 801-568-7141




To: Sandy City Council
From: Marci Houseman – District 4
Date: March 3rd, 2026
Subject: Amendment to Title 4 of the Sandy City Municipal Code


Utah State Code assigns the municipal legislative body the authority and responsibility to adopt
and control the City’s annual budget. As personnel costs represent a substantial portion of
budgetary expenditure, it is essential that the budget process reflects the authority to authorize
and limit municipal staffing levels. In order for the City Council to carry out its statutory duties,
the adopted budget should include a consolidated staffing schedule identifying all authorized
positions and establishing a total count of full-time benefited positions.
The total count of full-time benefited positions established in the staffing schedule shall be the
total number authorized for that fiscal year regardless of whether sufficient appropriations
exist. The proposed new language to our code establishes this limitation and provides a
mechanism to increase the staffing count if necessary. Any increase to the total count of full-
time benefited positions should follow the same process as required to amend and increase
appropriations in our budget. This change strengthens the Council’s oversight and fiscal control
consistent with State Code. The proposed language is included as Exhibit A.
                                                                               10000 South Centennial

                                 Sandy City                                    Parkway Suite 231
                                                                               Sandy, UT 84070

                                Council Office                                 O| 801-568-7141




Exhibit A

Sec. 4-4-1. Definitions.

The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a
different meaning:

(1)    Department means the designation within the organizational structure of the
administrative branch of City government which groups a broad classification of similar
functions, services and duties.

(2)   Division means a designation within the organizational structure of a department
which groups similar functions, services and duties.

(Revised Ords. 1978, § 6-4-1; Ord. No. 17-06, 2-7-2017)



Sec. 4-4-2. Principles of Departmental Organization.

(a)    Notwithstanding their inclusion as part of this Code, departments, divisions,
services, or offices may be added, modified or removed at the discretion of the Mayor,
subject to budgetary authority of the City Council, to allow for administrative flexibility and
to provide for the changing needs of the City.

(b)    A designation of any department, division, service or office shall not ensure staffing
for any such portion of the administrative organization, but all staffing of the positions
created by the sections of this title and by the Mayor as an exercise of the power granted to
him by this title shall be subject to the limitations and requirements of applicable budget
and fiscal appropriations.

(c)    The total number of authorized full-time benefited positions within each department
of the City shall be limited to the number of positions established in the consolidated
staffing schedule adopted as part of the annual budget. No increase in the total number of
authorized full-time benefited positions in any department shall occur unless the
consolidated staffing schedule is amended by the City Council pursuant to the same
procedures required for amending the annual budget.
