Town of Alta
Water Fund Debt Memo
October 31, 2023


Regarding the Water “Debt” Due to Other Funds:
From what we can see in the Caselle accounting software, the Water fund’s Due to Other Funds dates back
to fiscal year 2002. The Due to Other Funds is an automatic function of the accounting system when one
fund’s (in this case the Water fund) expense is paid for out of another fund’s cash account. Because the
Town was not fully utilizing pooled cash in the past, and maintained separate checking accounts one for
the governmental funds (General and Capital Projects), another for the Water Fund, and a third for the
Sewer Fund, there were many instances over the years where the Water and Sewer funds should have
reimbursed the main general checking account for their respective expenses. Over time, the Sewer Fund’s
Due to Other Funds remained minimal and has been addressed over the past few years. The Water Fund’s
Due to Other Funds grew quite quickly in Fiscal Year’s 2005 (~$50,000), 2008 (~$100,000), 2010
(~$60,000), 2011 (~$30,000), and so on. From what we can tell in looking back at the information in
Caselle, is that there appears to be some larger repairs, or capital costs that were not ultimately reimbursed
by the Water Fund, and therefore, the Due to Other Fund “debt” continued to increase.
From when we were first engaged to assist the Town in their accounting function, the Due to Other Funds
balance has not significantly increased, which means that the Water Fund has reimbursed the General Fund
for any payments made on its behalf, for the most part. Currently, the Town’s processes include at least
quarterly evaluation of interfund transactions and to reimburse, or otherwise, transfer necessary cash
balances going forward.
During the last few fiscal years, discussions continued regarding what to do with the large Due to Other
Funds balance in the Water fund. As mentioned previously, it is normal to have temporary interfund due
to/due from balances, however, with a large amount that has not significantly changed over the last several
years, this needs to be addressed. The Government Accounting Standards Board (which is the authoritative
standard-setter for accounting for governmental entities), requires that if significant interfund balances are
not anticipated to be repaid, it should be treated as a transfer and remove the interfund balance. As a result,
the Town has essentially three options: 1) Consider the interfund balance a transfer; 2) Determine, and
follow, repayment terms to gradually pay down the outstanding balance; or 3) some combination of the
previous two.
We are happy to discuss all options, the related logistics, and potential ramifications of those options with
the Council and Staff, and we will work with Staff to implement the Council’s decisions.
