Alta Town Council
Staff Report: Water Fund Debt to General Fund
November 1, 2023

According to our General Ledger, the Water Fund owes the General Fund $368,370. Steve
Rowley has recommended the Council decide how we want to treat the debt, so we can
account for the debt properly.

The following information and options are being presented for consideration and
discussion by the council. These options are illustrative and should not be seen as limiting
the council’s decision.

This section of Utah Code has been used to guide the options:
https://le.utah.gov/xcode/Title10/Chapter5/10-5-S120.html

A bit of background…

The records are ambiguous as the debt built up over many years. It likely accrued from
water infrastructure maintenance expenses paid out of the general fund without a
corresponding transfer from the water fund to cover those expenses. Some years saw an
increase of $50,000 to $100,000. In the Town’s accounting system, the expenses were
appropriately coded to the water fund so the budget seemed in order, but the proper
procedures were not followed to reimburse the general fund to costs paid out of the
general fund checking account on behalf of the water fund. Although temporary
borrowings between funds of a town or city is not unusual, long-term balances should have
been addressed more formally, which may have included a formal resolution, written
terms of the debt, transfer, and/or a public hearing to approve. Because of the lack of
detailed information in the accounting records or other documentation, we were required
to make some assumptions about how and why the “debt” was incurred.

What is clear is that a repayment schedule for the debt was never detailed or memorialized
and hence the debt remains on the Town’s records until a decision is made on what should
be done.

The Water Fund is an enterprise fund meaning it is a payment for usage fund. Only
consumers of the town’s water system are charged. Each year staff identifies the total
direct and indirect costs to provide the service and calculate sources and amounts of
revenue that are needed to pay for that service. As mentioned previously, the debt
repayment terms were not formalized, and therefore neither repayment nor the necessary
entries to transfer the borrowed funds were entered in the past, and we have not included
any loan repayment costs in our budget calculations in the past 2 years. This means that
the current water rates do not reflect amounts to cover repayment of the debt, and


                                                                                 Page 1 of 4
therefore, we have been undercharging water customers since the initial debt was first
incurred 30+ years ago.

Inside the Town of Alta municipal boundary, we have constituents on 2 different culinary
water systems (Town of Alta and Service Area #3), and those outside the Town’s culinary
water system (namely Albion Basin). This means we have some residents (those in the
service area and outside the Town’s boundary area) that pay into and benefit from the
general fund but do not support or receive services from the water fund.




Figure 1: The bright yellow outline represents the Town of Alta municipal boundary. The blue area generally represents the
portion of Town served by the Town's culinary water system. The areas in yellow are not served by the Town's culinary water
system.

Accounting standards for governments (the Government Accounting Standards Board
Statement No. 34), states that “if repayment is not expected within a reasonable time, the
interfund balances should be reduced and the amount that is not expected to be repaid
should be reported as a transfer from the fund that made the loan to the fund that received
the loan.” Therefore, the town has three options: repay the loan, “forgive” the debt and treat
it as a transfer, or a combination of the two.
Option 1: Pay the debt off through a defined term loan.
Councilmembers could take the position to repay the debt. Councilmembers could
assume the entries as debt were indeed the intent, regardless of how or when the debt
happened, and that it’s the water fund’s responsibility to make the general fund whole
again. If the council decides to repay the debt, then there should a payment plan put in

                                                                                                               Page 2 of 4
place. The good news is that under Utah code (UCA 10-5-120 (6)(a)), interest does not need
to be included and the maximum repayment term of 10 years doesn’t apply because this
was a loan from the general fund to another fund of the Town.

If the council chooses the repayment option, then staff recommends one annual payment
from the water fund to the general fund to pay down the debt over time. This would easily
be tracked over time using the balance sheet and could be initiated with the FY25 Budget.

 Annual Payment Options
 Years to Pay   Annual           Annual Amt Per      The annual payment as a % of FY23
   off Debt   Payment             Year Per ECU          water fund expenses ($395k)
      10       $35,837                $142                          9%
      15       $23,891                 $95                          6%
      20       $17,919                 $71                          5%

As an example, if the $35,837 annual payment option is selected then that amount would
be included in the water fund’s annual budget - which determines the amount of revenue
necessary to operate the water system. Each water system user is assigned an equivalent
capacity unit (ECU) value, which is defined as a unit reflecting that part of the capacity of
the water system necessary to serve a standard water customer. All single-family
residential buildings are assigned an ECU value of 1.25 and all other buildings ECU values
are assigned using the table in the water rates resolution. If the council chooses to pay off
the debt over 10 years in equal installments, then each residential property would pay an
additional $177 per year for the life of the debt. For reference, this would result in a 12.5%
increase to the current 2024 water rates.

 How would the payment affect residential customers?
 Years Amt Per Residential    Current Annual     New Water                 Increase
         Unit / Year (1.25      Water Pymt           Pymt
               ECU)
  10           $177               $1,416           $1,593                     13%
  15           $118               $1,416           $1,534                      8%
  20            $89               $1,416           $1,504                      6%

 How would the payment affect the avg. commercial customer? (ECU 24.98)
 Years Amount for the Avg     Current Annual     New Water     Increase
           Hotel / Year         Water Pymt          Pymt
  10            $3,544                 $28,288             $31,832           13%
  15            $2,363                 $28,288             $30,651            8%
  20            $1,772                 $28,288             $30,060            6%




                                                                                    Page 3 of 4
Options 2: Forgive the debt
Councilmembers could take the position to forgive the debt and report it as a transfer. This
debt built up over the course of 30+ years. On an annual basis the average contribution to
the debt represents a minimal portion of the general fund’s budget ($368,370 / 30 years =
$12,279 per year on average). It could be said that the Town and Water Fund have learned a
valuable lesson here and that the mistake will not be repeated. While the total sum of the
debt is notable, when one considers that it grew over such a long time it diminishes the
effect. Some may feel that charging current and future users of the water system who may
not have been users of the water system when the debt was incurred for what is in effect
Town of Alta procedural error may be unfair. Writing off the debt would be more beneficial
to the current and future water system users than it would be detrimental to the general
fund and those who have contributed to it over the years.

If the council decides to forgive the loan, Town staff would present a budget amendment to
record the transaction as a transfer from the General Fund to the Water Fund, which would
require a budget amendment hearing, and ultimately an approving vote from the Town
council.

Option 3: A Combination Approach – Forgive a portion (such as half) of the loan and
require repayment of the rest.
This approach recognizes both options above and tries to find some middle ground.




                                                                                Page 4 of 4
