Alta Town Council

Staff Report


To: Town Council
From: Chris Cawley, Interim Town Manager
Re: UDOT LCC EIS/Gondola Resolution, Survey
Date: December 5, 2023
Attachments:


November 8, 2023 Council Meeting Discussion re: Resolution 23-R-1

The Alta Town Council has reviewed several iterations of a resolution stating a position on the
UDOT Little Cottonwood Canyon Environmental Impact Statement (the EIS). During the
November 8, 2023 council meeting, the council’s discussion of Resolution 23-R-21 informally
reached three conclusions:

    1. The council wants to maintain and promote positive relationships with UDOT and its
       personnel.
    2. The council supports the “Common Sense Solutions Approach” outlined in the October
       2022 letter from Salt Lake County Mayor Jenny Wilson.
    3. Prior to adopting or endorsing a statement opposing or taking any other position on the
       proposed Little Cottonwood Canyon gondola, the council wants to understand
       community members’ positions on the gondola.

Proposed survey

Mayor Bourke and I would like to use an online survey to collect feedback from the
community about the gondola. I have developed a survey using Microsoft Forms with the
following questions:

    1. Name
    2. Email Address
    3. Alta Affiliation: Resident, Property Owner, Business Owner or Operator, Business
       Employee, Frequent Visitor, Occasional Visitor, Other
    4. How well do you feel you understand UDOT’s LCC EIS, and the Preferred Alternative?
    5. How effective do you believe a gondola will be in improving safety, mobility, and
       reliability on SR 210?
    6. What benefits do you think the proposed gondola would provide?
    7. What negative impacts do you think the gondola would create?
    8. Please use the following questions to describe your reaction to UDOT’s proposed Little
       Cottonwood Canyon Gondola
    9. Do you believe the proposed gondola is an appropriate use of public or taxpayer
       funding? Why or why not?
    10. Please include any other thoughts, feelings, or reactions to the UDOT LCC EIS Preferred
        Alternative and the proposed gondola.

Please click here to preview the survey.

We propose opening the survey on Thursday 12/13, and closing it Tuesday, January 2, 2024, to
leave time for staff to compile survey data and prepare a report. We are still refining a plan for
how to distribute the survey as of Wednesday December 6th and will report a proposal to the
council in the December 12th meeting; our goal is to distribute the survey somewhat narrowly,
rather than seding it out via social media or the newsletter.

Request for Council Discussion

Please review the survey and the survey questions and bring any questions or suggestions to
discuss in the December 13th council meeting.




                                                                                                     2
