         MAYOR                                                                              TOWN OF ALTA
      ROGER BOURKE                                                                           P.O. BOX 8016
                                                                                           ALTA, UTAH 84092
     TOWN COUNCIL
     CAROLYN ANCTIL                                                                        TEL (801) 363-5105
       JOHN BYRNE                                                                            (801) 742-3522
      ELISE MORGAN                                                                         FAX (801)742-1006
      DAN SCHILLING                                                                              TTY 711




                                         Budget Committee Charter
Authority
Pursuant to resolution number 2024-R-5, dated February 14, 2024 the Town Council has established a
Budget Committee to operate according to this charter. The Budget Committee serves as an advisory
body to the Town of Alta and the Town Council.
Purpose
The purpose of the Budget Committee is to assist the Budget Officer1, Town Manager, and staff in the
preparation, review, and recommendation of annual budgets to the Mayor and Town Council. The
committee is encouraged to learn and understand the financial needs and priorities of the Town Council
in order to recommend longer range financial planning through the Capital Projects Plan. The committee
makes recommendations to ensure fiscal responsibility, transparency, and clarity of budgets and
financial planning documentation for the benefit of the community.
Membership
               •   The Budget Committee shall consist of a minimum of 3 members and no more than 5
                   members.
               •   At least 2 committee members shall be council members.
          Appointment
               •   The Town Manager2 shall appoint committee members with advice and consent of the
                   Town Council.
               •   All appointments shall include a term end date.
               •   Vacancies occurring through expiration of terms of appointment, death, disability,
                   resignation or moving from the town if applicable shall be filled by appointment by the
                   Town Manager, with advice and consent of the Town Council.
               •   No member of the Budget Committee shall receive compensation for their service.
          Qualifications
               •   All members of the Budget Committee shall be Town of Alta residents and/or property
                   owners.
               •   Members should represent a cross-section of the community and possess diverse skills
                   and experience relevant to budgetary matters.
               •   The members should collectively possess knowledge in accounting, budget, and financial
                   reporting needed to understand and evaluate the Town of Alta’s financial statements.


1
    UCA 10-6-109
2
    Alta Code 1-15-2(A)(4)
Duties and Responsibilities
      •   Assist in the preparation, review, and recommendation of annual budgets to the Town Council.
      •   Review revenue projections, expenditure requests, staff compensation structure, and
          departmental justifications.
      •   Review sources of risk and recommend procedural changes.
      •   Recommend and review fiscal health targets.
      •   Assist in creating transparent and legible financial reports for presentation to the council and
          the public.
      •   Propose recommendations for budget adjustments and improvements.
      •   Periodically review outsourced staff expenditures and make recommendations.
      •   Provide regular updates and recommendations on the budget process to the Town Council to
          foster transparency and facilitate the council’s ability to make key decisions.
      •   Assess the impact of proposed budgets on the community and services.
      •   Approve committee meeting minutes via a quorum.

Decision Making
Due to the advisory role of the Budget Committee, a good faith effort should be made by all committee
members to base recommendations to the Town Council on the consensus of the group.
A quorum of the Budget Committee constitutes a simple majority of the total membership. Committee
meeting minutes shall be approved by a quorum of the committee.
Meetings
The Budget Committee shall be chaired by the Budget Officer and be subject to the provisions in the
Open and Public Meeting Act3. The committee shall meet regularly from January through June during
the budget preparation period and as needed throughout the rest of the year. To help reduce the
burden of additional meetings for council members serving on the committee, the Budget Officer shall
try to schedule meetings to coincide with the regular Town Council meeting schedule. There may be
instances where meetings need to be held in advance of council meetings to allow for document
preparation etc.
The agenda of each meeting shall be clearly determined in advance and committee members should
receive supporting documents in advance, for reasonable review and consideration. Meetings will not
be conducted unless a quorum is present. The chair of the Budget Committee shall create meeting
minutes which include the meeting:
      •   Agenda
      •   Time, date, and location
      •   Attendance
      •   A summary of the topics discussed
      •   Record of recommendations that will be made to the Town Council
Charter Review
As needed, the Budget Committee shall recommend modifications to this charter for the Town Council’s
review.

3
    UCA 52-4-202
