                                   TOWN OF ALTA

                             RESOLUTION NO. 2024-R-5

  A RESOLUTION BY THE ALTA TOWN COUNCIL IN RESPONSE TO THE
  UTAH DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION’S LITTLE COTTONWOOD
          CANYON ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT STATEMENT

       WHEREAS, the Town of Alta (“Town”) is located at the end of State Route
(“S.R.”) 210 within Little Cottonwood Canyon (“LCC”);

        WHEREAS, because State Route 210 ends within the Town, vehicular traffic and
associated peak travel times and congestion significantly affects residents, businesses, and
visitors in the Town;

       WHEREAS, to address traffic issues in LCC, the Utah Department of
Transportation (“UDOT”) conducted an Environmental Impact Statement to evaluate
proposals to improve safety, mobility, and reliability on S.R. 210 in and near LCC (the
“LCC EIS”);

       WHEREAS, UDOT issued a Record of Decision in the summer of 2023 (the “Final
EIS”), in which it identified Gondola Alternative B (the “Gondola Alternative”), with
proposed phasing (“Phase 1, Phase 2, and Phase 3”), as the preferred alternative to improve
transportation in LCC;

       WHEREAS, UDOT’s implementation of the LCC EIS will affect the Town in ways
dissimilar from any other entity; and

     WHEREAS, the Town Council (“Council”) wishes to express its position on the
UDOT LCC EIS.

     NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE TOWN COUNCIL AS
FOLLOWS:

Section 1.

        The Council expressly supports and appreciates all UDOT employees and
personnel, including but not limited to road maintenance workers, avalanche forecasters,
engineers, project managers, and executives, for their commitment to safety, mobility,
and reliability in Little Cottonwood Canyon and Alta. The Council wishes to maintain a
constructive and collaborative relationship between the Town and UDOT, and each
agency’s respective personnel, in perpetuity. The Council appreciates UDOT’s continued
financial investment in solving problems that are unique to Little Cottonwood Canyon.

Section 2.


                                         Page 1 of 3
         The Council supports UDOT’s “phased approach” to implementing alternatives
identified in the Final EIS and looks forward to collaborating with UDOT in phases 1 and
2 to improve safety, mobility, and reliability on SR 210. The Council believes
implementation of phases 1 and 2 must include collecting, and sharing with the public, data
about the efficacy of phased improvements such as the proposed enhanced bus service and
tolling. The Council also supports conducting more rigorous and transparent evaluation of
the capacity of the natural and social environment in LCC to withstand the additional
visitation long-term transportation improvements would facilitate. The Council believes
analysis of such data will be essential to understanding the need for, and justifying, large
and expensive transportation infrastructure projects that would have permanent negative
impacts on the environment in LCC. The Council urges UDOT to engage a third party to
conduct such an analysis to ensure public trust in the outcome.
Section 3.
      The council urges UDOT to suspend consideration of a gondola in Little
Cottonwood Canyon.
Section 4.

       We request that UDOT utilize remaining Recreation Hotspots funding allocated to
Little Cottonwood Canyon to study and implement various measures to mitigate
congestion on SR-210 and especially afternoon peak travel period “red snake conditions,”
including but not limited to:

   •   Various strategies to manage and control vehicle entry into LCC such as:
             o Implementing traction device requirements for all vehicles in LCC from
               November 1 to May 1
             o Expanding and improving traction device requirement enforcement
             o Expanding and improving the “sticker program” to pre-authorize vehicles
               with appropriate traction devices
             o Tolling during peak travel periods, with tolling infrastructure at the mouth
               of the canyon, and with flexibility to accommodate residents and delivery
               vehicles
   •   Study and implement measures to maintain roadway operations on the S.R. 210
       “Main Line” under Mt. Superior during periods of increased avalanche hazard
   •   Improve traffic flow from Alta during peak departure times by reducing or
       eliminating merge points along the Alta-Snowbird Bypass Road and between
       Snowbird Entries 4 and 1
   •   Continued evaluation of selective lane closures for private vehicles during peak
       traffic hours to reduce travel times for buses and other shared-ride vehicles and
       services


                                          Page 2 of 3
   •   Restoring UTA Ski Bus service to levels provided prior to recent cuts in service
   •   Measures to mitigate impacts to roadway operations from roadside parking
       throughout the canyon. We request prioritization be placed on SR 210 between
       Snowbird entries 1 through 4 as well as the Alta-Snowbird Bypass Road.
Section 4. This Resolution shall become effective immediately upon passage and shall
be forwarded to UDOT, EIS cooperating agencies, nearby municipalities including Salt
Lake County, and the Town’s legislative representatives.

APPROVED by the Town Council on the 13th day of March 2024.

                                             By:
                                                   ________________________
                                                   MAYOR ROGER BOURKE

ATTEST:


__________________________
JEN CLANCY, TOWN CLERK




                                        Page 3 of 3
