Alta Planning Commission

Staff Report



To: Alta Planning Commission
From: Chris Cawley, Town Manager
Date: April 17, 2024
Re: Shallow Shaft Restaurant Proposed Base Facilities Zone Ordinance Text Amendment and
Redevelopment Vision
Attachments: The Shallow Shaft Redevelopment Vision presentation powerpoint/.pdf



Introduction

The owners of the Shallow Shaft restaurant are considering a project to demolish the existing
structure and pursue a redevelopment on the property. Both the existing structure and the
proposed future structure and land uses exhibit nonconformity and noncompliance issues under
Town of Alta zoning regulations. The owners of the Shallow Shaft will join the Alta Planning
Commission on April 24th to discuss a proposed amendment to the text of the Town of Alta
zoning ordinance and their redevelopment vision.

Existing Property, Applicable Zoning

The existing land use is an 80-seat restaurant, with an apartment in the basement primarily used
by employees or facility caretakers. The existing structure is 28 feet tall above the lowest
adjacent finished grade, with at least 44 % lot coverage. The Shallow Shaft parcel is .21 acres.

The Shallow Shaft parcel is zoned Base Facilities under Town of Alta Code 10-6D, and further
defined as Zone C of the Base Facilities Zone (BFZ). The adjacent “Photohaus” property is the
only other property in BFZ Zone C. The following are relevant provisions of the BFZ:

Purpose: The purpose of the base facilities zone is to allow land to be used for retail and service
commercial establishments and uses, together with transient accommodations uses. The base
facilities zone is the commercial hub of the town and, as a result, no residential uses, including,
but not limited to, condominiums and single-family residences shall be permitted within the base
facilities zone.
Permitted Uses: Hotels, conferences, retail commercial services, storage of materials accessory
to permitted uses, parking, parks and open spaces, and designated employee housing
Prohibited Uses: All other uses not permitted in the BFZ (including residential uses as stated in
10-6D-2 Purpose)
Minimum Lot Size: 1 acre
Minimum Lot Width: 100 feet
Maximum Coverage: 65%
Yard Regulations (Setbacks): Individually determined by the land use authority
Maximum Height, Zone C: Individually determined by the land use authority
The BFZ was last updated substantially in 2014, when provisions related to lot coverage, height,
and other elements were amended.

Existing Zoning Noncompliance and Nonconformity Issues

    •   The .21 acre. 95.5 foot wide Shallow Shaft parcel does not comply with the BFZ
        minimum lot size and width requirements under 10-6D-8. The adjacent Photohaus
        parcel is also below the minimum lot size and width requirement in the BFZ.
    •   Parking occurs on the Shallow Shaft parcel at present, with up to 8 vehicles parking
        partially on private property, and partially on land within the UDOT right-of-way
        easement for SR 210. Under the current code, parking “as is” is allowed for existing uses.
    •   If the property is enlarged or increased in capacity or there is a new use or new
        construction then parking requirements in the Code apply. Alta Town Code Chapter 10-
        12 requires 1 parking space per 2.5 seats or 3 spaces per 100 feet of gross floor area;
        under this requirement, the 80-seat Shallow Shaft restaurant would require at least 30
        parking spaces to comply with the ordinance. The ordinance also requires parking to
        occur on-site, although exceptions can be made in some circumstances. Current parking
        on site is included in the northside parking permit program or in the Alta Marshals Office
        “official zone” by permission from the Shallow Shaft. The Town of Alta manages snow
        removal in the parking area.
    •   Given these nonconcompliance issues, the only option under the current code to
        demolish and rebuild or expand the structure is to use the same footprint, with the
        option to add an additional 250 gross square feet of floor area, per updates to ordinance
        10-8-4 adopted in 2021.

Redevelopment Proposal

The property owners propose to develop a two-story building with two short-term rental units
on each floor, on top of a basement 7-stall parking garage. The proposed structure would have
56% coverage, stand 36’ above the lowest adjacent finished grade, and have setbacks between
5’ and 30’ from various lot lines. See page 9 “Coverage/Setback of New Structure” in the
attached presentation. The proposed use is short-term rentals.

Proposed Zoning Ordinance Text Amendment

The property owners propose a text amendment to Town of Alta Code 10-6D-8 to reduce the
minimum lot size in Zone C to .13 acres, and to reduce the minimum lot width to 70 feet, in
order to mitigate both Zone C properties’ noncompliance with 10-6D-8. See page 13 “Proposed
Code Change” in the attached presentation. Such a text amendment would allow for a new
building to meet the lot size and width requirements and be a larger building, therefore allowing
it to be placed in a new footprint and be larger than the old footprint plus 250 square feet.

Problems with the Redevelopment Vision: Short-Term Rentals

Since the BFZ was last updated, Short-Term Rentals (STRs) have become one of the hottest topics
in local land use regulation across the United States and especially in resort communities like
Alta. The reasons why are numerous, including:

    •   In communities such as Park City, Moab, and Springdale, as well as in urban
        communities, considerable portions of local housing stock, especially more affordable
                                                                                                   2
        units, have been purchased by investors and converted into STRs. STR rates can generate
        substantially more income for a property owner than long-term, residential style rentals.
    •   When commercial properties are converted to STR, what were once spaces open to
        public commerce and thus had social significance to community members and visitors
        become inaccessible. STR also do not typically create and sustain as many jobs as
        businesses like restaurants and retail shops. A classic example of this comes from
        Springdale, where conversion of a beloved local art gallery to STR lead the Town of
        Springdale to undertake a significant project to regulate short-term rentals:
        https://www.kuer.org/business-economy/2022-02-25/springdale-puts-the-brakes-on-
        new-short-term-rentals. This could be seen as an analogous situation to what would
        occur on the Shallow Shaft property, where the only restaurant in Alta not part of and
        primarily intended for guests at a hotel or day-skiers at Alta Ski Area would be converted
        into transient accommodations accessible only to guests

There are also many commonly acknowledged benefits of STRs:

    •   STRs are very popular for destination visitors and can provide diverse transient lodging
        options. Many properties in Alta’s residential zones are rented as STRs.
    •   STR’s are generally considered a safe or easy business model. They do not require
        substantial staffing or other overhead costs required for a successful retail or food
        service business. Depending on property owners’ specific financial circumstances, STR
        could be more stable businesses to operate in Alta’s extremely seasonal economic
        environment.

The BFZ ordinance does not include the terms “short term rental” or “nightly rentals.” Nightly
rentals are permitted in certain other Town of Alta zoning districts, but not the BFZ. The BFZ is
intended to promote pure hotel use, service commercial uses such as restaurants and retail
shops, and employee housing. Under State of Utah Code 10-8-85.4. “‘Short-term rental’ means
any residential unit or any portion of a residential unit that the owner of record or the lessee of
the residential unit offers for occupancy for fewer than 30 consecutive days.” Residential uses
are expressly prohibited in the BFZ. Thus, short-term rental use is not permitted in the BFZ.

The property owners argue that short term rental use is permitted under the definition of a
hotel contained in Town of Alta Code 10-1-6:

Any building containing guestrooms intended or designed to be used, or which are used, rented,
or hired out to be occupied on a nightly basis, or which are occupied for sleeping purposes by
guests, and which may include accessory facilities such as a lobby, meeting rooms, recreation
facilities, group dining facilities and other facilities customarily associated with hotels. A "hotel"
shall not include any building used for residential purposes, including, but not limited to,
condominiums and single-family residences.

Staff believes the planning commission and town council intended to prohibit short-term rental
use in the BFZ during the most recent process to update the ordinance, which was in 2013-2015.
Short term rentals are based on single family dwellings being used for nightly rentals. Single
family dwellings are explicitly prohibited in the zone.

Allowing the Shallow Shaft to convert to STR under this definition would require the town to
allow other properties in the BFZ, such as Alta’s existing hotels, to convert to STR.

                                                                                                         3
These units are not condominiums. A “condominium project” is defined as “A real estate plan or
project whereby two (2) or more units, whether contained in an existing or proposed building or
buildings, are separately offered or proposed to be offered for sale. "Condominium project" shall
also mean the property when the context so requires,” and the units are not proposed to be
independently offered or sold.

For more information on STR as a land-use topic, click here to read a white paper on STR from
the Utah Land Use Institute.

Additional Problems with the Redevelopment Vision

    •   As described above, the Shallow Shaft parcel is below the 1-acre minimum lot size and
        100-foot minimum lot width requirements in the BFZ. The proposed redevelopment
        substantially changes the footprint of the structure and appears to increase the floor
        area by more than 250 gross square feet. The purpose of the proposed text amendment
        is to mitigate this noncompliance.
    •   A large culvert exists on the southeast corner of the Shallow Shaft parcel. 10-6D-14-G
        Stream Regulations provides that no building, structure, improvement, or appurtenance
        shall be constructed, raised or established, the nearest point of which is within fifty feet
        (50’) of the high-water line of any Waterway, and 10-1-6 Definitions defines a culvert as
        a “Waterway.” The plan and renderings contained in the Shallow Shaft’s proposal
        appears to show improvements within 50 feet of the culvert. The culvert helps manage
        heavy runoff from spring melt out and rainstorms that would otherwise flood or
        undermine SR 210. Addressing this setback would change the layout, location and size
        of the proposed redevelopment.
    •   10-6D-11 provides that “Maximum Coverage” “for the aggregate of all buildings,
        structures, graded surfaces, paved areas, overhangs, driveways, decks, parking areas
        and walkways shall be 65% of the gross lot area. If the text amendment was approved,
        any new building would be permitted so long as it met the 65% of the gross lot area.
    •   10-7-22 Avalanche Hazard Review requires building permit applicants to define and
        analyze a “100-year avalanche” event and design the building to withstand and project
        human life from such an event. On properties with significant exposure to avalanches,
        designing to this requirement can be a primary driver of feasibility and construction
        costs and the Town encourages property owners to evaluate avalanche hazard early in
        the design process on any significant project. Various avalanche studies have shown
        significant avalanches originating on Flagstaff Shoulder and Flagstaff face affecting
        nearby properties. Renderings in the proposal appear to show uphill-facing windows,
        which would require extensive engineering and reinforcement if a dedicated study
        confirms significant exposure.
    •   The proposed underground parking garage is shown to be accessed from the US Forest
        Service road that accesses Alta Central and has historically been covered by deep
        snowpack all winter. Adding vehicle circulation on, and plowing the lowest segment of
        the road would be technically challenging, and the Shallow Shaft would need permission
        from US Forest Service and the Utah Department of Transportation.
    •   Parking will be required to be completely on-site unless the Shallow Shaft is granted an
        exemption to this under 10-6D-6.

Minimum Lot Size and Width Requirements in General and in Alta
                                                                                                   4
Lot size and width requirements are common regulations in municipal zoning ordinances. They
are a primary mechanism to regulate density, the look and feel of neighborhoods and
communities, and the social intensity of a given land use, which can affect demand for municipal
services and parking, vehicular and pedestrian traffic and circulation, environmental impacts,
and other factors.

The smallest minimum lot size allowed in any Town of Alta Zoning District is ½ acre, in the
Peruvian Estates Zone. The minimum lot size in Alta’s commercial zone has always been 1
contiguous acre, which the Town of Alta inherited from Salt Lake County upon incorporation in
1970.

Changing the minimum lot size in BFZ Zone C could be considered “spot zoning,” which is when
special zoning ordinances are narrowly tailored to a single property or other small number of
properties.

If this text amendment were granted it would apply to both properties in the “C” zone of the
BFZ. Therefore, the adjacent Photohaus property, which is a parcel less than 2. acres, would also
be permitted to redevelop under this amendment and could expand to 65% of the lot coverage.

Additional Note on the Photohaus

The Photohaus was originally built as a mixed residential and commercial property on a US
Forest Service special use permit, prior to the Town of Alta’s incorporation. Both the Shallow
Shaft and the Photohaus either purchased their land from the US Forest Service or participated
in a land exchange with the agency. The owners of the Photohaus rent the residential dwellings
in the building as short-term rentals. The Photohaus is zoned Base Facilities Zone C, like the
Shallow Shaft. The Town considers the residential uses in the Photohaus grandfathered
nonconforming uses. The Photohaus was substantially remodeled in the past decade, but prior
to the recent amendment to the Town of Alta nonconforming use and noncomplying structure
ordinance allowing limited tear-down and rebuild, and neither dimensions, coverage, or uses of
the building changed.

Proposed Town of Alta and Planning Commission Process and other Next Steps

Staff recommends the Town of Alta and the planning commission undertake a process to study
impacts of the proposed text amendment and affirm Staff’s finding that Single Family Dwellings
and thus STR are not allowed in the BFZ. The process should involve the following elements:

    •   Seek from the applicant three-dimensional massing renderings to study the impacts on
        neighborhood look and feel, viewsheds from adjacent properties, etc. that could result
        from adopting the proposed text amendment
    •   Consider whether reducing the minimum lot size requirement in BFZ Zone C would set a
        precedent for proposals to change minimum lot size requirements in other zoning
        districts

If the Planning Commission is interested in considering STRs in the Base Facilities Zone, they
could direct staff to do the following:

    •   Develop a definition of STR and determine whether, or under what conditions, to allow
        STR

                                                                                                 5
   •   Study the economic benefit of STR to the Town of Alta compared to other potential
       commercial uses such as restaurants or retail shops, especially in light of the potential
       for UDOT’s proposed enhanced bus service or gondola to impact pedestrian traffic and
       demand for services in central Alta
   •   Evaluate any other potential impacts that permitting STR in the BFZ could create. Would
       STRs enhance, complement, or degrade Alta’s character and community?

If the planning commission eventually decides to support the proposed text amendment, or to
develop ordinance language regulating STR in the BFZ, it can vote to recommend any such
changes to the town council. The council has final authority to approve all zoning amendments
or rezoning requests.




                                                                                                   6
