The Shallow Shaft Redevelopment
              Meeting Purpose

Discussion with the Planning Commission
• Proposed the text amendment to align lot size and width
   requirement with the practical realities of properties within
   Zone C
• Amendment allows for better utilization of the property without
   compromising the zone’s integrity while continuing to
   preserve the unique environment of Alta
• Recognize that approval is discretionary; proposing
                                                   Ag     a solution
   that we believe makes sense
• Planning Commission has solved problems for other Alta
   property owners in the residential and base facilities zones;
   seeking similar problem-solving support here
• Obtain feedback from the Planning Commission prior to the
   public hearing
                       Background/Context
The Shallow Shaft built in 1956
• Ski shop, restaurant, apartment

Purchased in 1986 by Walter
Krebsbach - 37 years contributing
to Alta
• Donations: Alta Historical Society,
    Alta Art Council, Friends of Alta, Alta
    Gala
•   Family ski vacations: the Rustler,
    Snowpine, and Alta Lodges

Environment changes and
Alta/Snowbird growth over 37 years
•   Alta does not have a sufficient
    economic base to support stand-
    alone dining
                          Agenda
Goal: Share our new vision for Shallow Shaft property

Overview:
• Demolish old and obsolete structure
• Rebuild in a new orientation
• Ensure full code compliance
• Focus on health, safety and sustainability
• Repurpose restaurant and apartment into transient
  accommodations consistent with Base Facilities Zone purpose
  and permitted use of hotel                    Ag

Visuals: Site maps, display exterior views, and designs

Code change recommendation

Respond to relevant items cited on April 17, 2024, Staff Report
to the Alta Planning Commission

Next Steps: Public hearing
                    Base Facilities Zone
Purpose: 10-6D-2 Alta Town Code

The purpose of the base facilities zone is to allow land to be used for retail
and service commercial establishments and uses, together with transient
accommodations uses. The base facilities zone is the commercial hub of the
town and, as a result, no residential uses, including, but not limited to,
condominiums and single-family residences shall be permitted within the base
facilities zone. (Ord. 2008-O-7, 6-12-2008)


Permitted use Hotel: 10-6D-4 Alta Town Code


Definitions: 10-1-6 Alta Town Code
Hotel: Any building containing guestrooms intended or designed to be used, or
which are used, rented or hired out to be occupied on a nightly basis, or which
are occupied for sleeping purposes by guests, and which may include
accessory facilities such as a lobby, meeting rooms, recreation facilities, group
dining facilities and other facilities customarily associated with hotels. A “hotel”
shall not include any building for residential purposes, including but not limited
to, condominiums and single-family residences.


We are not seeking any uses not currently permitted in the base
facilities zone
Site Maps
            Site View of Current Structure
Land Use:

• Feedback from Town of
  Alta indicated moving
  the building away from
  the forest road would be
  desirable
• Lot includes 4-5 full and
  3 partial parking on the
  Shallow Shaft Property
                Site View of New Structure
Improved Location:
• Relocated away from the
   forest road for safety
• Opens green space
   between buildings - less
   crowding

Efficient Land Use:
• Orients building consistent
    with lot shape
• Takes advantage of solar
    exposure for energy
    efficiency
• Provides covered parking

Alignment:
• Designed to complement
   the aesthetics of Photohaus
• Blend in with the beauty of
   Alta
               Proposal Concept
Only seeking to reduce the minimum lot size to 0.13 and
               minimum lot width to 70 ft
                    Proposal Concept
Structure Overview:
• Down canyon view of the new
   building

Design:
• Lower level: Covered parking
  garage
• Second and third levels: Four
  rental units

Health, Safety and
Sustainability Focus:
• Up to date code requirements
• Safe egress from living
  quarters
• Roof design to support snow
  dump/storage
• Renewable energy sources
  (solar panels) - aim for zero
  external energy consumption
                         Proposal Concept
Structure Perspective:
•   Up-canyon view of the new
    building


Parking Convenience:
•   Side entrance to the parking
    garage - doubles parking
    availability
•   Charging units for electric
    vehicles
•   Potential to allocate parking
    spaces for Town use


Designed to Reduce
Environmental Impact
•   Green roof
•   Building envelop to go beyond
    energy code requirements for
    insulation and sealing
•   Durable building materials
    support harsh winter
    environment
                   Proposal Concept
Rear Elevation:
• View of the back of the
  structure from forest
  road
Set-Backs/Interior Designs
           Coverage/Setback of New
                  Structure
Existing Building

• Slope – 16%
• Coverage – 44%
• Height ~ 28 ft

New Structure
• Slope – 16%
• Coverage - 56%
• Height – 36 ft

New Structure Setbacks
(Highlighted in yellow)
• Back – 30’-1”
• West – 5’
• East – 10’
• Front – 10’
                Basement Floor Plan
Features:
• Garage entrance
• 7 Parking Spaces
• Ski Storage Area
• Stairs
• Elevator allows
  ADA room access
• Mechanical Room
                 Level One Floor Plan
Units:
• 2 Units
• Unit 1: 2 Bedrooms/2
  Bathrooms
• Unit 2: 1 Bedroom/1
  Bathroom

Flexibility:
• Option for a lock-off
   efficiency unit
• Accommodates variety of
   of guest
                   Level Two Floor Plan
Units:
• 2 Units
• Unit 1: 3 Bedrooms/3
  Bathrooms
• Unit 2: 2 Bedrooms/2
  Bathrooms

Flexibility:
• Option for lock-off
   efficiency units.
Proposed Code Change and Rationale
            Background for code change request


After learning that the 2015 coding changes did not
consider Zone C, we inquired in if a variance was the right
procedure to use to allow expansion of the Shallow Shaft.
Our request was reviewed the the Town’s legal counsel
who stated:
“After reviewing the background sent by John and looking into the Town Code and Utah
Code, it appears the only option available to allow for the Shallow Shaft to expand …is to
amend the Town Code (the best option would probably be to change the Base Facilities
Zone C only, which only applies to the Shallow Shaft and Photohaus).”
“Furthermore, there are not (to our knowledge) special circumstances attached to the
Shallow Shaft property that deprive the property privileges granted to other properties in
the same zone. Because of this, a variance does not seem like a viable option for
addressing this issue.”



Per the legal counsel’s suggestion, we are requesting
a zone ordinance text amendment for Zone C,
affecting only the Shallow Shaft and the Photohaus.
                       Proposed Code Change                                               Zone C Properties (proposal includes
                                                                                          changes to accommodate all
Current Code                                                                              properties in zone)

10-6D-8: LOT AREA, LOT WIDTH AND SLOPE REQUIREMENTS:
Construction of any building, structure or improvements shall not be permitted where
                                                                                          • Shallow Shaft
any of the following conditions exist:                                                         Acres:     0.21
 A. The lot area is less than one net developable acre in size; or                             Lot width: 95.5 ft
 B. The slope exceeds thirty percent (30%); or
 C. The width of the lot shall be less than one hundred feet (100'). (Ord. 2008-O-7, 6-
                                                                                          • Photohaus
12-2008)                                                                                      Acres:     0.13
                                                                                              Lot width: 70.65 ft
Proposed Code Change
10-6D-8: LOT AREA, LOT WIDTH AND SLOPE REQUIREMENTS:
Construction of any building, structure or improvements shall not be permitted where
any of the following conditions exist:
  A. The lot area is less than one net developable acre in size for Zone A and Zone B;
or less that 0.13 net developable acre in size for Zone C
 B. The slope exceeds thirty percent (30%); or
 C. The width of the lot shall be less than seventy feet (70’).

Minor code change impacts Zone C only
Summary
            Benefits of New Structure for Alta
Integration with Environment:
• Design blends with surroundings and Alta's natural beauty

Energy Efficiency:
• Utilizes advanced insulation and solar panels for energy efficiency

Enhanced Snow Management:
• Covered parking reduces cars on the road, facilitating snow removal

Potential for Internal Parking:
• Doubles parking capacity
• May offer internal parking for the Town of Alta

Skiing Accessibility:
• Transient accommodations brings alternative housing for skiers to Alta
• May appeal to individuals or families concerned about shared spaces post-
  COVID or who want to eat in rather than go out in the evenings
• ADA accessible

Increased Tax Revenue:
• Higher property value and sales tax will boost revenue for Town of Alta
   Response to Staff Report


The staff report is focused on short-term use;
the question of whether short-term rentals
are permissible under the current base
facility zoning is outside the scope of the
proposed text amendment.
Response to Existing Zoning Noncompliance and Nonconformity
                           Issues
Lot size and width requirements:
•   We advocate for the proposed text amendment to align the lot size
    and width requirements with the practical realities in Zone C. This
    amendment allows for better utilization of the property without
    compromising the zone’s integrity or the integrity of the other ones
    within the Base Facilities Zone
Parking:
Current Status
•   We agree that parking for an 80-seat restaurant is untenable
•   Current land has 4-5 full and 3 partial parking spaces on Shallow
    Shaft Property
•   The northside permit parking program and the “Alta Marshall’s
    Office” official zone is not occurring with the permission from the
    Shallow owners
•   Owners identified in questionnaire/survey that the Shallow Shaft
    would utilize parking on the property. Owners became aware of
    permit parking and official zone being utilized in front of the Shallow
    Shaft in 2023.
Proposed status
•   Proposal for covered parking fully on the Shallow Shaft Property in
    our redevelopment plan directly addresses parking concerns. The
    improvement will enhance traffic management and safety which is in
    alignment with community interests.
               Redevelopment Proposal


The building envelop needs to be slightly
modified, better positioned, to make the best use
of the the small lot
          Response to problems with redevelopment vision

Concern over loss of free-standing restaurant
A free-standing restaurant lacks the needed economic base in Alta. Shallow
Shaft restaurant was primarily supported by Snowbird guests and down canyon
guests. No steady Alta clientele; limited use of the restaurant by Alta
community members, Alta employees or Alta Lodge Guests.
Restaurant never open in shoulder seasons, rarely open in summer
There are other restaurants available in Alta:
• The Snowpine lodge restaurant is open to the public for all meals
• Goldminers daughter serves pizza to the public
• Rustler lodge is open to the public for lunch and dinners when the lodge is
  not full
Snowbird – advertises “I want Any Meal, for Any Price, at Any Area”
• 6 restaurants: The Aerie, SeventyOne, Steak Pit, The Tram Club, The Lodge
  Bistro, The Wildflower
• 10+ other venues: General Gritts, The Atrium, The Summit, The Forklift,
  Creekside Café and Grill, Tram Car Pizza, Baked and Brewed Café,
  Birdfeeder, Subie Shack, Gadzooks, Rendezvous
             Response to problems with redevelopment vision

Affordable long-term housing purchased by investors and converted to short-term rentals
•    We are not outside investors purchasing local affordable housing with the intent to convert it to
     accommodations that force tenants to move.
•    We are not proposing a use of Short-term rentals consistent with the State of Utah Code. See
     further comments below.

State of Utah Code 10-8-85.4
•    Shallow Shaft redevelopment proposal is not considering creating residential units that meet the
     State of Utah Code for short-term rentals. Nor are we proposing creating single family dwellings.
     Our proposal aligns with the definition of a hotel in the town code and fits squarely fits within the
     base facilities zone purpose to provide transient accommodations.

Staff identifies that short term rentals do not typically create and sustain as many jobs
•    Transient accommodations do require management, cleaning, maintenance, repair and in some
     instances, meal drop off, chef or grocery shopping services, all of which create employment.

Allowing redevelopment vision of Shallow Shaft will require the town to allow other
properties, such as existing hotels to convert to short term rentals
•    Again, we are not proposing short-term rentals. Allowing the redevelopment of the Shallow Shaft to
     meet the permitted use of a hotel would not require the town to allow other properties in the base
     facilities zone, such as Alta’s existing hotels, to do the same. The existing lodges already contain
     “guestrooms intended or designed to be used, or which are used, rented or hired out to be occupied
     on a nightly basis, or which are occupied for sleeping purposes by guests.”
           Additional problems with redevelopment vision

Building setback from culvert – We need a building official to share with
our architect, Hans Hoffman, what size the culvert is, how deep it is, where
it comes from, and where the outlet is. We will then work with the building
official to determine the high-water mark, and we will propose a solution.

Maximum coverage – Concern that allowing redevelopment plan for the
Shallow Shaft will allow the two buildings in Zone C to expand to 65%
coverage. The allowance for 65% coverage currently covers all
establishments in the Base Facilities Zone (A, B, and C). So, there is no
inconsistency across zones.
Avalanche – new building will be designed with modern building standards
that significantly improve the resistance to natural hazards. Alternate
design solutions will enhance the buildings safety and durability.
Parking garage –entrance can be moved to the front of the building.
Covered parking for the transient accommodations will be completely on-
site.
Minimum lot size – Described in the June 1989 Uniform Zoning ordinance
of the Town of Alta for the base facilities zone was ½ acre. It was changed
to 1-acre in 2008-O-7. Wording for text amendment can be written such
that it does not impact other lot size requirement for other zones.
Next Steps: Public Hearing
