JOB POSTING: TOWN MANAGER
Job Title: Town Manager
Reports to: Mayor and Town Council
About the Town of Alta
Alta is a small mountain community located at the head of Little Cottonwood
Canyon. The Town of Alta was incorporated in 1970 and operates under a five-
member council form of government, with 4 councilmembers and a voting Mayor. The Town itself
ranges in elevation from 8,500 ft to 11,068 ft above sea level and is blanketed with an average of 500
inches of snowfall each winter. Alta is famously home to Alta Ski Area and to spectacular year-round
access to outdoor recreation, which annually draws hundreds of thousands of locals and visitors from
all over the world. The 2010 census reports Alta’s population as 383, but on a typical winter day there
can be as many as 5,000 people in Alta.
The Town of Alta provides various municipal services in Alta, including but not limited to police,
culinary water and sewer, planning, zoning, and development services, and animal and business
licensing. The Town is operating under a $2.2 million general fund budget during fiscal year 2023, with
a staff of 12 full-time employees, and several part-time or contract employees.
Alta’s municipal boundary includes 4.5 square miles of high-alpine terrain, all within Salt Lake City’s
protected culinary watershed. About 80% of land in Alta is owned and managed by the USDA Forest
Service Wasatch National Forest Salt Lake Ranger District. These are just two examples of the
numerous overlapping jurisdictions and unique environmental conditions which make Alta a unique
community, and a complex environment in which to provide municipal services.
General Purpose:
The Town Manager is the chief administrative officer for the Town of Alta and is responsible for
administering, overseeing, and directing all daily and long-range Town activities and programs. With
broad policy guidance from the Town Council, the Town Manager is responsible for strategic
implementation of Council goals. The Town Manager is expected to provide broad leadership and
organizational direction for the Town of Alta staff and must work with the Mayor and Council to
prepare and develop policies to further Town objectives. The Town Manager advises both the Mayor
and Council on suggested policy and ordinance changes as well as carrying out and enforcing the
existing policies and ordinances.
Essential Functions:
   •   Direct the planning, operation, delivery, and evaluation of all municipal services.
   •   Act under direction and guidance of the Mayor, Town Council, Town Ordinances, and the Utah
       Code. Guide elected officials in developing and implementing policies and ordinances and develop
       reports and recommendations for the Town Council, Alta Planning Commission, and Land Use
       Appeal Authority.
   •   Manage long-range planning including activities related to organizational development, human
       resources, strategic planning, budgeting, capital improvement planning, and land use planning.
   •   Serve as Land Use Planner. Administer zoning and building permits and other development
       services.
   •   Manage and administer the Town of Alta Planning Commission.
   •   Propose and administer personnel policies and procedures. Manage and oversee all town
       employees directly and/or through assigned supervisors. Oversee annual review of employees
       through supervisors. Oversee and direct the hiring process, reserving the final hiring authority on a
       case-by-case basis except for statutory positions requiring Town Council appointments. Assume
       final decision-making related to employee retention, advancement, discipline, and termination.
       Serve as arbitrator of complaints filed against or between town employees and departments to
       negotiate mutually agreeable solutions.
   •   Direct and oversee the work activities of the Town’s contract employees, such as building officials and
       inspectors, engineers, and attorneys.
   •   Manage and supervise public property under the Town of Alta’s jurisdiction including but not
       limited to buildings, utility systems, and other physical assets.
   •   Working in conjunction with the Mayor, manage and supervise the Town’s public affairs and relations.
       The Town Manager responds to citizen and press inquires, and manages various other public relation
       activities. The Town Manager is the main public contact source for Town matters, including
       complaints directed at the Mayor and/or Council.
   •   Manage and supervise Town of Alta intergovernmental relations and collaboration with the numerous
       agencies with jurisdiction and other interests in Alta, Little Cottonwood Canyon, and the greater
       Central Wasatch Mountain region.
   •   Manage, supervise, and delegate special projects on a wide range of topics as needed.
Qualifications:
   •   B.A. in Public Administration or related field, with strong preference for a master’s degree in public
       administration or related field. Minimum 8 years’ experience with advancing responsibility in
       municipal government administration.
   •   The Town Manager must be a generalist with knowledge of government principles and processes
       related to budgeting, legislation, state laws and statutes, principles and practices of public
       administration, knowledge of town operations and administration, planning, zoning, and
       development, personnel affairs, intergovernmental affairs etc.
   •   Preference for experience in land use, planning, and zoning issues.
   •   Must be able to research a variety of projects, write a professional summary of findings, and present
       findings orally. Must be able to analyze a wide variety of issues and problems and provide
       recommendations and solutions.
Physical Requirements:
       Must have excellent verbal and written skills, able to speak English fluently, and be able to access an
       office in a high mountain environment in extreme weather.
Compensation:
       Salary Range: $100,000-$160,000
       Status: The Town Manager is a full-time, appointed, FLSA-exempt position with health, dental and
       vision insurance, enrollment in the Utah State Retirement System (URS), vacation and sick leave
       benefits.
Note about position:
The Town Council is currently working on drafting an Ordinance that would formalize the position of Town
Manager as described in this posting.
                             Application deadline: March 3, 2023 at 12pm noon.
              To apply, please submit a cover letter, resume, and three professional references
                                  via email to Jen Clancy, Town Clerk, at:
                                             jen@townofalta.com
