From:           Chris Cawley
To:             Jen Clancy
Subject:        Fw: APC Meeting 5/22
Date:           Friday, May 17, 2024 4:18:56 PM
Attachments:    24-5-GP-Shaft.pdf




From: Andrina Hougham. S.
Sent: Friday, May 17, 2024 10:16 AM
To: Chris Cawley <ccawley@townofalta.com>
Subject: Re: APC Meeting 5/22

Chris, Here are my thoughts/concerns regarding the packet to the Alta Planning Commission:

1) The last slide seems to continue to represent that we are requesting a use meeting the State
of Utah definition of a short term rental. We clarified at the Planning Commission meeting
that we are not requesting any change in use for the Base Facilities Zone. Our use fits into the
definition of a hotel which is an allowed use. The purpose of our presentation was to receive
feedback on our proposed text amendment to align lot size and width requirements with the
practical realities of properties within Zone C. The amendment allows for better utilization of
the property without compromising the zone’s integrity while continuing to preserve the
unique environment of Alta. Whether the Planning Commission determines to discuss the
allowance of short term rentals is outside the scope of what we are requesting.

2) The value of the changes that we are presenting do not seem to be represented in the slide
or discussion and how these may fit within the general plan. They are summarized below:

Integration with Environment:
      Design blends with surroundings and Alta's natural beauty
Energy Efficiency:
      Utilizes advanced insulation and solar panels for energy efficiency
Enhanced Snow Management:
      Covered parking reduces cars on the road, facilitating snow removal
Potential for Internal Parking:
      Doubles parking capacity
      May offer internal parking for the Town of Alta
Skiing Accessibility:
      Transient accommodations brings alternative housing for skiers to Alta
      May appeal to individuals or families concerned about shared spaces
      post-COVID or who want to eat in rather than go out in the evenings
      ADA accessible
Increased Tax Revenue:
      Higher property value and sales tax will boost revenue for Town of Alta

3) The Planning Commission expressed concern about setting a precedent. We are in a unique
situation and know that a process and language in the code can be put into place to alleviate
any precedent setting concern.

Our request is that the slides be adjusted to represent what I have stated here. Kind Regards,
Andrina


---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Chris Cawley <ccawley@townofalta.com>
Date: Thu, May 16, 2024 at 4:51 PM
Subject: APC Meeting 5/22
To: Andrina Hougham. S.


Hi Andrina,

We are moving toward a planning commission meeting next Wednesday. We will have a
discussion of the Town of Alta General Plan and its implications for the shallow shaft
proposal. The draft slides I’ll provide to the commission are attached. The packet will go out
tomorrow afternoon. Let me know if you have questions or concerns.

Best,

Chris Cawley
Town Manager
Town of Alta
Office: 801-742-6010
Cell: 603-731-8074
www.townofalta.com
