General Plan Guidance
Regarding Shallow
Shaft Proposal
May 22, 2024
Alta Planning Commission Meeting
            Utah Code Section 10-9a-401 General plan Required:
            To accomplish the purposes of this chapter, a municipality
            shall prepare and adopt a comprehensive, long-range
            general plan for:

Municipal   (a) present and future needs of the municipality; and
            (b) growth and development of all or any part of the land
            within the municipality.
General      The general plan may provide for:

Plans       (a) health, general welfare, safety, energy conservation,
            transportation, prosperity, civic activities, aesthetics, and
            recreational, educational, and cultural opportunities; (b)
            the reduction of the waste of physical, financial, or
            human resources that result from either excessive
            congestion or excessive scattering of population;
Municipal General Plans
10-9a-405. Effect of general plan:
  Except as provided in Section 10-9a-406, the general plan is an advisory guide for land use decisions, the
impact of which shall be determined by ordinance.
General plans guide making decisions such as:
  • Developing new zoning or other ordinances
  • Revising existing zoning or other ordinances
  • Zoning changes on property
  • When and where to construct new parks, roads, water and sewer facilities, etc.
  • Deciding City priorities
General Plan vs. Comprehensive Plan
                                           For Example:
                                                       Issue:
Commercial development in Alta: General Plan updated in
   2013 to adopt Section 4.3 “Town Center Commercial”
               General Plan Goal, Policy, Action Statements:
                The Town of Alta has the intent to create an     Municipal
 identifiable center of Town for residents and visitors alike.
         Action: Amend the zoning code that relates to the
                                                                 General Plans
      Base Facilities Zone if necessary to reflect any desired
    changes in density, height, and coverage requirements.
                                                      Result:
  Town of Alta Base Facility Zone amended in 2016 to allow
increased coverage, greater height, increased hotel density
Last complete General Plan update in 2005




Updated in 2013 to include Context and Vision
Statement section, Section 4.3 Town Center
Commercial
                                                  Town of Alta
Updated in 2016 to include Section 4.3.A
Commercial Core Plan
                                                  General Plan

Focused on environmental protection and
managing development, interagency coordination,
general policy statements regarding canyon
transportation, ski area planning and
development, etc.
Town of Alta General Plan
Relevant Excerpts
“Alta’s Vision Statement”


We expect standards for design and development that
honor the unique context of Alta and that maintain the
scale and visual patterns that define the landscape.
Commercial development is and will continue to be
concentrated in the commercial core of our community,
away from sensitive areas. We look forward to the
construction of a Town Community Center which will be
the social and cultural hub of Alta.
Town of Alta General Plan
Relevant Excerpts
“Alta’s Vision Statement”
Alta’s residents, employees, and business-owners strive for responsible
and sustainable growth and development. We celebrate the winter
sports activities that are fundamental to our town and we support
expansion of Alta’s summer economy.
We expect standards for design and development that honor the unique
context of Alta and that maintain the scale and visual patterns that
define the landscape. Commercial development is and will continue to
be concentrated in the commercial core of our community, away from
sensitive areas. We look forward to the construction of a Town
Community Center which will be the social and cultural hub of Alta.
Town of Alta General Plan Relevant (?)
Excerpts

Section 4.1 Zoning
THE EXISTING ZONING OF ALL AREAS SHOULD CONTINUE.
FUTURE RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT SHOULD BE LIMITED TO THOSE AREAS
CURRENTLY ZONED FOR SUCH USES.
Town of Alta General Plan Relevant (?)
Excerpts
SECTION 4.3 – TOWN CENTER COMMERCIAL
The Town Center Commercial Core, hereafter referred to as the “core” is defined as the area of land between the Peruvian Lodge and Albion
Base commercial facilities.
The Town of Alta currently has limited year round commercial activity. The Town supports public and private efforts to develop long term,
year round commercial ventures. Summer economic development will be important in developing this goal.
The Town supports short and long term efforts to develop a year round economic base in these areas and throughout Alta. The Town
supports activities that will support summer employment and will complement, not degrade Alta’s unique character.
Employee housing is a useful component of any commercial development and is beneficial to the ongoing success of the community and
therefore we encourage it to be a feature of commercial development.
Commercial Core Plan
Commercial Core Plan:
Developed during Mountain
Accord Planning Process
beginning in 2015
 • LCC transportation
    concepts such as train,
    gondola, tunnel to
    Brighton
 • Land exchange: private
    holdings above town
    exchanged into
    commercial core
Commercial Core
  Plan – Guiding
       Principles
Recent Commercial Core Land Use
Changes
• Snowpine Lodge tear-down rebuild: 2x hotel rooms, >~5x square footage, numerous amenities,
         open to the public year-round. Offers weddings, conferences, etc.
• Small employee housing addition to Rustler Lodge in permitting process
• ASL has tried various models for summer food service, summer lift service, not currently operating base area
         point-of-sale during ski season
• Lodges have generally increased summer business offerings since great recession; some short-term rental business
         elsewhere in town
    • Overall business volume and sales tax revenue to the Town still much lower than winter.
• Not really any other projects taking advantage of BFZ upzone…though its only reasonable to assume they are coming
 Implications for Shallow Shaft?
                                                        But:

• Commercial Core Plan Guiding principles:              •   Is it realistic to expect a restaurant to survive/thrive? Can
                                                            any service commercial establishment meet current
  “Leverage existing resources” “Plan for Alta’s role
                                                            zoning requirements on the parcel?
  in mountain solutions”
                                                        •   What is the relevance of the Commercial Core vision 10
     • Does proposal support these principles?              years later?
• No mention of STR in general plan, base facilities           •   Can the Town do anything new to support a
  zone                                                             summer economy?
     • Permitted in other zones, not in BFZ             •   Are STR a residential use if their primary or sole
                                                            occupancy is commercial?
• Does “continue existing zoning” discourage
  changing minimum lot size?                            •   What about minimum lot size?
                                                               •   Spot zoning?
• Does converting to STR support summer economy
                                                               •   Precedent setting for other parts of town?
• Does converting to STR support transit hub btw
                                                        •   Regardless of whether the shaft is going to become STR,
  AL-Rustler?
                                                            BFZ ordinance needs STR definition. Can decide whether
                                                            they’re prohibited or permitted.
