FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
August 6, 2024

CENTRAL WASATCH COMMISSION (CWC)
Lindsey Nielsen, Executive Director
801-706-1004, lindsey@cwc.utah.gov


                              THE CENTRAL WASATCH COMMISSION RELEASES
                                      UPDATED VISITOR-USE STUDY

SALT LAKE CITY, UT – Tuesday, August 6, 2024, Initially released in October, 2023, the Central
Wasatch Commission has released an updated version of the final Visitor Use Study report to the
public.

The Visitor-Use Study report details the findings of an effort designed to better understand the
visitors and visitor experiences offered on Forest Service land within the Central Wasatch
Mountains. The data and findings serve as a base of information that can be used to inform the
decisions of both the USDA Forest Service as well as the many entities represented on the Central
Wasatch Commission.

A team led by Dr. Jordan Smith, Director of the Institute of Outdoor Recreation & Tourism, and
Professor in the Department of Environment and Society at Utah State University conducted the
multi-year data collection and analysis for the CWC’s Visitor-Use Study and has updated the data
sets illustrating annual visitation to “third sites,” or ski resorts in the Cottonwood Canyons to more
realistically reflects visitation to ski resorts. In the initial report, there was a third site data
weighting issue that has been corrected in the updated report.

The design and administration of the Visitor Use Study follows the USDA Forest Service’s National
Visitor Use Monitoring program. As such, the Visitor Use Study provides data that are scientifically
defensible and grounded in the agency’s best-practices for quantifying and characterizing outdoor
recreation use. The Visitor Use Study provides a variety of insights regarding outdoor recreation
use of the public lands in the Central Wasatch that, to date, have not been quantified in a
systematic way. Specifically:



6 August 2024                      CWC Updated Visitor-Use Study Report Press Release           Page | 1
    •     The total recreational visits to public lands by canyon.
    •     The total recreational visits to different types of sites on public lands within the canyons.
    •     The proportion of visits involving different outdoor recreation activities on public lands.
    •     The total time visitors to the public lands in the canyons spend participating in different
          activities.
    •     The average number of times visitors recreate on public land in the canyons each year.
    •     Visitors’ perceptions of crowding on public lands in the canyon.
    •     Visitors’ overall satisfaction with their visits to public lands in the canyons.
    •     The distance traveled to recreate on public lands in the canyons.
    •     The sociodemographic characteristics of visitors to public lands in each of the canyons.

You may read the updated Final Visitor-Use Study Report, the Trail-Use Report, and the Visitor-Use
Study Phase 1 and Phase 2 Reports, on the Central Wasatch Commission website: cwc.utah.gov.


ABOUT THE CENTRAL WASATCH COMMISSION

The Central Wasatch Commission is an inter-governmental entity with jurisdictions in the Town of
Alta, the Town of Brighton, Cottonwood Heights, Millcreek City, Park City, Salt Lake City, Sandy
City, and Summit County, with Utah Transit Authority and Metropolitan District of Salt Lake and
Sandy as ex-officio members. Building on the work of Mountain Accord, the Commission seeks to
engage the public, build consensus, and coordinate action in the Central Wasatch Mountains.
Learn more at cwc.utah.gov.

                                                         ###


For further information, please contact Lindsey Nielsen at 801-706-1004, or lindsey@cwc.utah.gov




6 August 2024                         CWC Updated Visitor-Use Study Report Press Release            Page | 2
6 August 2024   CWC Updated Visitor-Use Study Report Press Release   Page | 3
6 August 2024   CWC Updated Visitor-Use Study Report Press Release   Page | 4
