To:       Lindsey Nielsen, Central Wasatch Commission

From: Jordan W. Smith, Utah State University

CC:       Jeff Silvestrini, Commission Chair, Central Wasatch Commission
          Sam Kilpack, Central Wasatch Commission
          Mia McNeil, Central Wasatch Commission
          Chase C. Lamborn, Utah State University

Date: June 28, 2024

Re:       Central Wasatch Visitor Use Report: Edits based on review from ski resort managers and USDA Forest
          Service

This memo summarizes edits made to the Central Wasatch Visitor Use Report after a revised version of the
report was shared with the Central Wasatch Commission, the USDA Forest Service, and ski resort managers in
mid-December 2023. Comments shared with Utah State, and our responses are below:

Mike Maughn, Alta Ski Area; 12/19/23: Thank you for he updated report. While improved significantly from the first
release, it still seems to not correctly represent the way things are in the canyons. For example, with actual skier visits
from the ski areas reported to the USFS for study period totaling 996,767 for BCC and 1,152,028 for LCC downhill skiing
at the ski area, can you help us understand how the numbers in your report are less for skiing in the canyons. Another
question is have you included the actual trail counts (winter and summer) from the Wasatch Backcountry Alliance in
your analysis? They have recorded as many as 50,000 skiers at the winter trailhead counters in Alta. Seems like the
actual numbers should trump and be relieved on more than numbers derived from estimates. If this is not the case can
you help us understand why?

      •   Response: The estimated forest visits by activity reported are statistical estimates based on a product of
          overall forest visitation within each canyon and the percentage of survey respondents who reported
          participating in each activity. As such, they may differ slightly from visitation numbers collected by other
          means (e.g., skier-days based on RFID scans). We’ve noted this on page 10 of the revised report. We’ve
          also noted “The ski resorts within the canyons report slightly more skier visits than those reported here
          (Big Cottonwood Canyon = 996,767 skier visits; Little Cottonwood Canyons = 1,152,028 skier visits). The
          resort’s values are likely more accurate given they are generated through RFIDs and other advanced
          monitoring technologies.”

          As for trail counts, yes they are used in the analysis to calculate they weights for certain trails and roads
          that are accessible in the winter (e.g., the Albion Basin Road, Red Pine, White Pine, Silver Fork). Trails
          which are accessible in winter are a unique sampling strata, as are the ski resorts. We use the on-site
          surveys to determine the characteristics of visitors to these areas (e.g., activities, sociodemographics,
          etc.) and then use the trail counter data to determine how many people use that area. This is identical
          to how the visits you report to the Forest Service are used to extrapolate the characteristics of the
          survey responses received at the resorts. The weights extrapolate the survey data to the total number of
          people using an area. We’ve added more detail on how these “proxy” data are used in the revised
          report on pages 6-7; we have also noted which sites use proxy data in Appendix A.


              5215 Old Main Hill | Logan, UT 84322-5215 | (435) 830-6294 | extension.usu.edu/iort
Mike Maughn, Alta Ski Area; 12/30/23: I understand that your analysis uses weights based on respondents to a
survey to estimate canyon visitor use by activity, however, when your estimates are not consistent with
available visitation data and other factors such as UDOT traffic patterns, and available parking it leads to

A few questions that I have after reading your updated report are as follows:

    1. There seems a large potential for error when the number of survey days are significantly more for
       general forest area sites and wilderness sites in LCC than the more heavily used day use sites. It seems
       the survey day numbers of the site types should have some consistency with the number of sites, known
       visitation numbers, and available parking.

    2. Seems like your survey results have not taken into consideration the employees that work in the canyon,
       nor the visits by vendors to support the commercial operations in the canyon. The number of
       employees that travel each day in the canyon to support ski area operations most likely exceeds all
       lower canyon visitors in LCC. Should they be considered and included in the survey results.

    3. How are you dealing with summer visitation to Alta and Snowbird? Are they considered general forest
       area site visits or day use site visits? Are visitors to Snowbird for conventions or business meetings
       included in the survey results? If not should they be?

    4. Since visitors to the trailheads in the town of Alta for backcountry skiing, snow shoeing, or hiking all use
       or cross private lands owned by Alta or Snowbird or lands included in their special use permits, how are
       they being considered. These visitors travel to and use the parking in designated day use sites and
       appear to comprise a significant amount of the numbers that currently seem to be reported as general
       forest area visits. It seems misleading to report them as general forest service area visits when they are
       actually traveling to and using the resources of day use sites to engage in their activity. In your survey
       the respondents may not be aware that the land they are using is not forest service lands, but private
       lands. How can we appropriately represent the dual use of site types in visitation?

Thank you for you hard work and willingness to look into our concerns

    •   Response:
        1. You are correct in pointing out that we have nearly as many, if not more, survey days for general
           forest area sites and Wilderness sites than we do for Day use developed sites. This is because
           general forest area sites and Wilderness sites tend to get less use than day use developed sites,
           requiring us to survey them more to obtain a representative sample of visitors.
        2. Employee travel is not part of this study. We’ve made this explicit in the revised version of the
           report on page 5.
        3. Summer visitation to Alta and Snowbird is classified by the Forest Service as a general forest area
           visit. You’ll see in Appendix A that the same site might appear twice, once in the summer (as a
           general forest area) and once in the winter (as a day use developed site).
        4. I understand your point here, but the Forest Service has a pretty narrow definition of what they
           consider a day use developed site (exclusively ski resorts and picnic areas in the Central Wasatch).
           All other day use sites are classified as general forest areas. And you are correct in noting that all
           forest use that doesn’t use a Forest Service trailhead, parking area, or other facility, is not captured
           in the agency’s use estimates. This would include residents and visitors accessing the forest from
           their homes/rental units at the resorts if those individuals did not use a Forest Service trailhead,
           parking area, or other facility. The agency does try to capture these types of forest visitors as much


            5215 Old Main Hill | Logan, UT 84322-5215 | (435) 830-6294 | extension.usu.edu/iort
            as possible. For example, we surveyed along the Albion Basin Road in the summer and winter to
            capture as much use as possible, but I do imagine a good portion of residents/visitors never use
            these major confluence points.

USDA Forest Service; 4/5/24 [via email to Lindsey Nielsen]:
I have feedback from the SLRD on the updated report. It is here:
    1. Methods section—with maps, and appendix of sample sites—is better. Ideally, should discuss
         what/how proxy data was used.
    2. Zinnia would like to see a version of the importance/satisfaction matrix return. It was in first but not
         updated version. If easy, would be nice to add back.
    3. Use of median rather than mean for distance traveled is much better. Can they also use interquartile
         range rather than standard deviation? If easy, would be better.
Let me know if you have questions, or of course, reach out to Zinnia Wilson directly, as these were comments
from her. There are also notes within the attached report.

Response:
   1. We’ve added an expanded discussion of how proxy data is used on pages 6-7; we have also noted which
      sites use proxy data in Appendix A.
   2. The importance/performance matrix is shown in table form on page 16 and discussed on pages 16-17.
   3. We’ve replaced the standard deviations reported in the text on page 18 with interquartile ranges.




            5215 Old Main Hill | Logan, UT 84322-5215 | (435) 830-6294 | extension.usu.edu/iort
5215 Old Main Hill | Logan, UT 84322-5215 | (435) 830-6294 | extension.usu.edu/iort
