CHAPTER 11
SUBDIVISIONS 1
SECTION:
10-11-1: PURPOSE
10-11-2: APPLICABILITY
10-11-3: PRESUBMISSION MEETING
10-11-4: APPLICATION FOR SUBDIVISION
10-11-5: FEES
10-11-6: PRELIMINARY PLAT
10-11-7: TOWN REVIEW
10-11-8: APPLICATION COMPLETION TIME LINE
10-11-9. FINAL PLAT:


Notes

 1   1. See also section 9-1-5 of this code for outside agency approval requirements.



10-11-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is:
 A. To promote the health, safety and general welfare of the residents of the town.
 B. To promote the efficient and orderly growth of the town.
  C. To provide policies, procedures, requirements and standards for the physical
development of subdivisions of land, construction of improvements within the town,
including, but not limited to, the construction and installation of roads, streets, curbs,
gutters, drainage systems, water and sewer systems, design standards for public facilities
and utilities, accesses to public rights of ways, and to establish fees and other charges for
the authorizing of a subdivision.
 D. To ensure that public facilities are available to the site and will have a sufficient
capacity to serve a proposed subdivision.
  E. To encourage the wise use and management of natural resources to preserve the
integrity, stability and aesthetics of the community. (Ord. 2009-O-3, 6-18-2009)


                                               1
10-11-2: APPLICABILITY:
No person shall subdivide any parcel of land which is located wholly or in part in the town
except in compliance with this chapter. No person shall sell or exchange or offer to sell or
exchange any parcel of land which is any part of a subdivision of a tract of land, nor offer
for recording in the office of the Salt Lake County recorder any deed conveying such parcel
of land, or any interest therein, unless such subdivision has been created pursuant to and in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter. This chapter shall not apply to any lot or
lots forming a part of a subdivision created and recorded prior to the effective date hereof.
(Ord. 2009-O-3, 6-18-2009)


10-11-3: PRESUBMISSION MEETING:
It is strongly recommended that the applicant for a subdivision schedule a presubmission
meeting with the town manager, or another representative of the town designated by the
town manager. Upon request from an applicant, the Town shall schedule a presubmission
meeting within 15 days of the request.
 A. The town manager or his the town manager’s designated representative may extend
an invitation to the presubmission meeting to any servicing utility companies, the Salt Lake
Valley health department, the state department of transportation, the unified fire authority,
and any other private or public body that has jurisdiction or an interest in providing
services to the subdivision.
  B. At the presubmission meeting, the applicant may bring any materials to assist the
parties at the meeting in identifying the location of the potential subdivision, the size and
layout of the subdivision, and any potential problems or challenges to creating the
subdivision. The Town shall have available or provide access to: (1) copies of applicable
land use regulations; (2) a complete list of standards required for the project; (3)
preliminary and final subdivision application checklists; and (4) feedback on the
presubmission plans.
  C. Due to the unique terrain of the real property within the town, the town manager or
his the town manager’s designated representative may require that the applicant submit
additional information, as set forth in subsection 10-11-4B3f of this chapter. (Ord. 2009-O-
3, 6-18-2009; amd. Ord. 2021-O-1, 3-10-2021; Ord. 2023-O-2, 4-12-2023)
10-11-4: APPLICATION.
A. The applicant for a subdivision shall prepare and submit a preliminary plat application
to the town manager or the town manager’s designated representative. The application
shall include three (3) copies of a complete preliminary plat and three (3) completed
application forms for the subdivision, including all required maps and charts. All
application materials shall be submitted at the same time in order to be considered for
completeness.



                                               2
  B. Application Form and Content: The town administration may create a preliminary plat
application form based upon the requirements of this section. A complete application shall
include all of the following information:
    1. Property Information: The date of the application, the name, address, phone number,
e-mail address, and signature of the applicant and the owner of the property, the current
zoning of the property, the location and address of the proposed subdivision, the total
acreage of the subdivision, and the number of proposed lots. All persons with a fee interest
in the property shall sign the subdivision application form. The applicant shall submit a
preliminary title report for all property within the application.
   2. Site Information: The following subdivision site information is required for a
complete application and shall be provided at the same scale as the preliminary subdivision
plat, on separate sheets if necessary:
     a. The identification of known and potential natural features on a map, including, but
not limited to, jurisdictional wetlands as identified by the U.S. army corps of engineers,
known or potential natural Waterways, Top of Bank, and any potential natural hazards,
including avalanche paths, liquefaction areas, and areas of soil instability, and all on site
vegetation regulated by town ordinance. A final map identifying known and potential
natural features as described in this section and identified by the building official will be
reviewed and approved or denied by the planning commission as part of the application
review process.
     b. The location and dimensions of all existing buildings, fence lines and property lines,
overlaid on the proposed subdivision layout, and the location of surrounding manmade
features and improvements, including buildings and roads, and natural features, including
significant landmarks and geologic features.
   3. Evidence Of Availability Of Necessary Services: The following information is
necessary to establish the availability of basic services to the proposed subdivision and the
preliminary plat subdivision application is complete only when all basic services are
available to the site and to each proposed subdivision lot, and approved in writing by the
designated authority:
     a. Culinary Water Requirements: Salt Lake City department of public utilities, water
division, Salt Lake Valley health department, and the town manager or the town manager’s
designated representative, are hereby designated collectively as the "culinary water
authority", as further defined in Utah Code Annotated title 10, chapter 9a, as amended or
replaced. Such culinary water authority shall evaluate and approve the proposed culinary
water system for the subdivision. The applicant shall provide all information required by
the culinary water authority (and other applicable agency described below, if any),
including, but not limited to, evidence of the source, quantity, quality and means of delivery
of the proposed culinary water to the proposed subdivision and each proposed lot. Certain
property within the town boundaries may not be eligible to be served by the town culinary
water system or able to be supplied water through the town contract for water with Salt
Lake City, and shall be required to obtain approval from any additional public or private
agency with jurisdiction over the proposed water source or delivery system.

                                              3
      b. Wastewater Requirements: Salt Lake Valley health department, environmental
health division, Salt Lake County service area no. 3, Cottonwood improvement district, and
the town manager or the town manager’s designated representative, are hereby designated
collectively as the "sanitary sewer authority", as further defined in Utah Code Annotated
title 10, chapter 9a, as amended or replaced. Each sanitary sewer authority shall evaluate
and approve the proposed sanitary sewer system. The applicant shall provide all
information and materials as required by the sanitary sewer authority.
     c. Fire And Emergency Requirements: The Unified Fire Authority is hereby designated
as the "fire authority", as further defined in Utah Code Annotated title 10, chapter 9a, as
amended or replaced. The fire authority shall evaluate and approve the proposed fire
suppression infrastructure and emergency access to the proposed subdivision. If the
proposed subdivision does not include year round motor vehicle (as defined by Utah Code
Annotated) access to all proposed lots and proposed and existing roads, streets and
adjacent properties, the application shall include an emergency access mitigation plan,
approved by the fire authority and the town. The applicant shall provide all information
and materials as required by the fire authority.
     d. Subdivision Roads And Streets: All proposed subdivision streets shall be evaluated
and approved by the town manager or the town manager’s designated representative, and
if appropriate, the state department of transportation. The proposed street layout shall
provide adequate and safe year round access to all proposed lots and proposed and
existing roads, streets and adjacent properties. If the proposed subdivision does not
include year round motor vehicle (as defined by Utah Code Annotated) access to all
proposed lots and proposed and existing roads, streets and adjacent properties, the
application shall include a parking and access mitigation plan. If the proposed subdivision
will be accessed from a state highway, an appropriate access permit as required by the
state department of transportation, shall be provided with the application materials in
order to be a complete application. If the proposed subdivision will be accessed from U.S.
Forest Service property, the applicant shall provide any appropriate access or special use
permits as required by the U.S. Forest Service with the application materials in order to be
a complete application.
     e. Avalanche Hazards: The town marshal department shall evaluate and approve the
subdivision application provisions for avalanche safety and interlodge controls. The
application shall include maps and descriptions of known avalanche slide paths and shall
include a proposed plat note describing the risks of building in an avalanche zone and an
acknowledgment limiting the town liability for hazards associated with avalanches. A final
map identifying known avalanche slide paths shall be certified by a qualified avalanche
expert and will be reviewed and approved or denied by the planning commission as part of
the application review process. The proposed plat note shall further acknowledge the
responsibility of any landowner within the subdivision to comply with the town interlodge
procedures and avalanche design and construction requirements, and the applicant and
current landowner agreement to sign and record the town avalanche hold harmless
agreement concurrently with the recordation of the plat.



                                             4
     f. Additional Information And Materials When Necessary: When the town manager or
the town manager’s designated representative deems necessary due to the characteristics
of the property to be subdivided, the applicant may be required to provide other
information or letters of feasibility from other agencies with jurisdiction over the property
to be subdivided, conduct studies, and provide evidence indicating the suitability of the
area for the proposed subdivision, including, but not limited to, adequacy of public safety
and fire protection, geologic or flood hazard, erosion control, preservation of vegetation,
and any other physical or environmental matters in conformance with the town zoning
ordinances. Such additional requirements shall be made of the applicant at the
presubmission meeting, or reasonably soon thereafter. (Ord. 2009-O-3, 6-18-2009; amd.
Ord. 2021-O-1, 3-10-2021; Ord. 2023-O-2, 4-12-2023)
      g. Notice: The applicant shall provide the town with two (2) sets of typewritten
address labels and sufficient funds to cover related postage costs to all property owners
within three hundred feet (300') of the boundaries of the proposed subdivision and all
affected entities.


10-11-5: FEES:
 A. Application Fees: To be considered complete, the application for preliminary plat
subdivision approval and a final plat subdivision approval shall be accompanied by all fees
established on the town fee schedule.
  B. Technical Expertise And Engineering Fees: The applicant shall pay all expenses of
reviewing and approving the subdivision, including the town fees for hiring individuals
with technical expertise, legal counsel and engineers to review the application. (Ord. 2009-
O-3, 6-18-2009)


10-11-6: PRELIMINARY PLAT:
A. Preliminary Plat: The Administrative Land Use Authority for the approval of a
Preliminary Plat application shall be the Planning Commission. The preliminary plat shall
be prepared by a licensed surveyor, and shall include the name and address of the surveyor
responsible for preparing the preliminary plat, and shall include a certification that the
surveyor holds a license in accordance with Utah Code Annotated title 58, chapter 22, as
amended or replaced, and has completed a survey of the property in accordance with Utah
Code Annotated section 17-23-17, as amended or replaced. The preliminary plat shall
describe or specify:
   1. A name or designation of the subdivision that is distinct from any plat already
recorded in the county recorder's office;
  2. North arrow, graphic and written scale, legend, basis of bearings used, and a vicinity
map of the site;
   3. The legal description of the entire subdivision site boundary;
                                              5
    4. The boundaries, course and dimensions, and acreage or square footage for all parcels
of ground divided, whether the owner proposes that any parcel or ground is intended to be
used as a street or for any other Public Use, and whether any such area is reserved or
proposed for dedication for a public purpose;
   5. For all parcels, the proposed lot or unit reference, block or building reference, street
or site address, street name or coordinate address (to be approved by the planning
commission as part of the application review process);
  6. Every existing right of way and easement grant of record for underground facilities
and for all other utility facilities;
     7. The anticipated net developable acreage for each lot;
   8. The names and addresses of the applicant and owner of the property, the engineer or
surveyor of the subdivision and the owners of the land immediately adjoining the land to
be subdivided and within three hundred feet (300') of the boundaries of the proposed
subdivision.
10-11-74: APPLICATION FOR SUBDIVISIONTOWN REVIEW:
The applicant for a subdivision shall prepare and submit an application to the town
manager or his designated representative. The application shall include three (3) copies of
a complete preliminary plat and three (3) completed application forms for the subdivision,
including all required maps and charts. All application materials shall be submitted at the
same time in order to be considered for completeness.
A. Determination Of Completeness Of Application: After receipt of an application, the Town
Manager or the town manager’s designated representative shall determine whether the
application is complete. An application for subdivision is only complete when it includes all
information and approvals listed in this chapter. If the Town Manager or the town
manager’s designated representative determines that the application is not complete, the
Town Manager or the town manager’s designated representative shall notify the applicant
in writing, specifying the deficiencies of the application, including any additional
information which must be supplied. No further action will be taken by the Town until the
deficiencies are corrected.
B.
  1. Following a determination that the application is complete, the application shall be
reviewed by Town staff for compliance with the Town’s Ordinances, Rules and Regulations.
Review by staff shall be completed within 40 days of receipt of the application. After staff
review, the application shall be placed on the next available planning commission regular
meeting agenda for review.
  2. The Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing on the Preliminary Subdivision
application. Notice of the Public Hearing shall be sent to the record owner of each parcel
within 500 of the property that is the subject of the application and shall be posted and
provided as a Class B notice in accordance with provisions of Utah Code Ann. §63G-30-102.

                                              6
  3. The planning commission shall approve a Preliminary Plat if the proposed subdivision
and the associated improvement drawings are in compliance with the Town’s ordinances
and requirements. A complete application shall include the following items:
 A. Preliminary Plat: The preliminary plat shall be prepared by a licensed surveyor, and
shall include the name and address of the surveyor responsible for preparing the
preliminary plat, and shall include a certification that the surveyor holds a license in
accordance with Utah Code Annotated title 58, chapter 22, as amended or replaced, and has
completed a survey of the property in accordance with Utah Code Annotated section 17-23-
17, as amended or replaced. The preliminary plat shall describe or specify:
   1. A name or designation of the subdivision that is distinct from any plat already
recorded in the county recorder's office;
  2. North arrow, graphic and written scale, legend, basis of bearings used, and a vicinity
map of the site;
   3. The legal description of the entire subdivision site boundary;
    4. The boundaries, course and dimensions, and acreage or square footage for all parcels
of ground divided, whether the owner proposes that any parcel or ground is intended to be
used as a street or for any other Public Use, and whether any such area is reserved or
proposed for dedication for a public purpose;
   5. For all parcels, the proposed lot or unit reference, block or building reference, street
or site address, street name or coordinate address (to be approved by the planning
commission as part of the application review process);
  6. Every existing right of way and easement grant of record for underground facilities
and for all other utility facilities;
   7. The anticipated net developable acreage for each lot;
   8. The names and addresses of the applicant and owner of the property, the engineer or
surveyor of the subdivision and the owners of the land immediately adjoining the land to
be subdivided and within three hundred feet (300') of the boundaries of the proposed
subdivision.
  B. Application: The town administration may create an application form based upon the
requirements of this section. A complete application shall include all of the following
information:
    1. Property Information: The date of the application, the name, address, phone number,
e-mail address, and signature of the applicant and the owner of the property, the current
zoning of the property, the location and address of the proposed subdivision, the total
acreage of the subdivision, and the number of proposed lots. All persons with a fee interest
in the property shall sign the subdivision application form.




                                              7
   2. Site Information: The following subdivision site information is required for a
complete application and shall be provided at the same scale as the preliminary subdivision
plat, on separate sheets if necessary:
     a. The identification of known and potential natural features on a map, including, but
not limited to, jurisdictional wetlands as identified by the U.S. army corps of engineers,
known or potential natural Waterways, Top of Bank, and any potential natural hazards,
including avalanche paths, liquefaction areas, and areas of soil instability, and all on site
vegetation regulated by town ordinance. A final map identifying known and potential
natural features as described in this section and identified by the building official will be
reviewed and approved or denied by the planning commission as part of the application
review process.
     b. The location and dimensions of all existing buildings, fence lines and property lines,
overlaid on the proposed subdivision layout, and the location of surrounding manmade
features and improvements, including buildings and roads, and natural features, including
significant landmarks and geologic features.
   3. Evidence Of Availability Of Necessary Services: The following information is
necessary to establish the availability of basic services to the proposed subdivision and the
subdivision application is complete only when all basic services are available to the site and
to each proposed subdivision lot, and approved in writing by the designated authority:
     a. Culinary Water Requirements: Salt Lake City department of public utilities, water
division, Salt Lake Valley health department, and the town manager or his designated
representative, are hereby designated collectively as the "culinary water authority", as
further defined in Utah Code Annotated title 10, chapter 9a, as amended or replaced. Such
culinary water authority shall evaluate and approve the proposed culinary water system
for the subdivision. The applicant shall provide all information required by the culinary
water authority (and other applicable agency described below, if any), including, but not
limited to, evidence of the source, quantity, quality and means of delivery of the proposed
culinary water to the proposed subdivision and each proposed lot. Certain property within
the town boundaries may not be eligible to be served by the town culinary water system or
able to be supplied water through the town contract for water with Salt Lake City, and shall
be required to obtain approval from any additional public or private agency with
jurisdiction over the proposed water source or delivery system.
     b. Wastewater Requirements: Salt Lake Valley health department, environmental
health division, Salt Lake County service area no. 3, Cottonwood improvement district, and
the town manager or his designated representative, are hereby designated collectively as
the "sanitary sewer authority", as further defined in Utah Code Annotated title 10, chapter
9a, as amended or replaced. Each sanitary sewer authority shall evaluate and approve the
proposed sanitary sewer system. The applicant shall provide all information and materials
as required by the sanitary sewer authority.
     c. Fire And Emergency Requirements: The Unified Fire Authority is hereby designated
as the "fire authority", as further defined in Utah Code Annotated title 10, chapter 9a, as
amended or replaced. The fire authority shall evaluate and approve the proposed fire

                                              8
suppression infrastructure and emergency access to the proposed subdivision. If the
proposed subdivision does not include year round motor vehicle (as defined by Utah Code
Annotated) access to all proposed lots and proposed and existing roads, streets and
adjacent properties, the application shall include an emergency access mitigation plan,
approved by the fire authority and the town. The applicant shall provide all information
and materials as required by the fire authority.
     d. Subdivision Roads And Streets: All proposed subdivision streets shall be evaluated
and approved by the town manager or his designated representative, and if appropriate,
the state department of transportation. The proposed street layout shall provide adequate
and safe year round access to all proposed lots and proposed and existing roads, streets
and adjacent properties. If the proposed subdivision does not include year round motor
vehicle (as defined by Utah Code Annotated) access to all proposed lots and proposed and
existing roads, streets and adjacent properties, the application shall include a parking and
access mitigation plan. If the proposed subdivision will be accessed from a state highway,
an appropriate access permit as required by the state department of transportation, shall
be provided with the application materials in order to be a complete application. If the
proposed subdivision will be accessed from U.S. Forest Service property, the applicant shall
provide any appropriate access or special use permits as required by the U.S. Forest Service
with the application materials in order to be a complete application.
     e. Avalanche Hazards: The town marshal department shall evaluate and approve the
subdivision application provisions for avalanche safety and interlodge controls. The
application shall include maps and descriptions of known avalanche slide paths and shall
include a proposed plat note describing the risks of building in an avalanche zone and an
acknowledgment limiting the town liability for hazards associated with avalanches. A final
map identifying known avalanche slide paths shall be certified by a qualified avalanche
expert and will be reviewed and approved or denied by the planning commission as part of
the application review process. The proposed plat note shall further acknowledge the
responsibility of any landowner within the subdivision to comply with the town interlodge
procedures and avalanche design and construction requirements, and the applicant and
current landowner agreement to sign and record the town avalanche hold harmless
agreement concurrently with the recordation of the plat.
     f. Additional Information And Materials When Necessary: When the town manager or
his designated representative deems necessary due to the characteristics of the property to
be subdivided, the applicant may be required to provide other information or letters of
feasibility from other agencies with jurisdiction over the property to be subdivided,
conduct studies, and provide evidence indicating the suitability of the area for the proposed
subdivision, including, but not limited to, adequacy of public safety and fire protection,
geologic or flood hazard, erosion control, preservation of vegetation, and any other
physical or environmental matters in conformance with the town zoning ordinances. Such
additional requirements shall be made of the applicant at the presubmission meeting, or
reasonably soon thereafter. (Ord. 2009-O-3, 6-18-2009; amd. Ord. 2021-O-1, 3-10-2021;
Ord. 2023-O-2, 4-12-2023)



                                             9
10-11-5: FEES:
 A. Application Fees: To be considered complete, the application for subdivision shall be
accompanied by all fees established on the town fee schedule.
  B. Notice: The applicant shall provide the town with two (2) sets of typewritten address
labels and sufficient funds to cover related postage costs to all property owners within
three hundred feet (300') of the boundaries of the proposed subdivision and all affected
entities.
  C. Technical Expertise And Engineering Fees: The applicant shall pay all expenses of
reviewing and approving the subdivision, including the town fees for hiring individuals
with technical expertise, legal counsel and engineers to review the application. (Ord. 2009-
O-3, 6-18-2009)


10-11-86: APPLICATION COMPLETION TIME LINE:
  A. Determination Of Completeness Of Application: After receipt of an application, the
town manager or his designated representative shall determine whether the application is
complete. An application for subdivision is only complete when it includes all information
and approvals listed in this chapter. If the town manager or his designated representative
determines that the application is not complete, the town manager or his designated
representative shall notify the applicant in writing, specifying the deficiencies of the
application, including any additional information which must be supplied. No further action
will be taken by the town until the deficiencies are corrected.
  AB. Remedy Of Deficiencies: The applicant shall correct all specified deficiencies within
ninety (90) days of the written notification of such deficiencies. If the applicant fails to
correct the specified deficiencies within such ninety (90) day period, the application for
subdivision shall be deemed withdrawn and will be returned to the applicant. Application
fees shall not be refunded. Any further submissions shall be considered only as part of a
new application.
  BC. Extensions Of Time: The town manager or the town manager’s designated
representative, upon written request from the applicant, may grant the applicant one
automatic thirty (30) day extension to correct the specified deficiencies. (Ord. 2009-O-3, 6-
18-2009; amd. Ord. 2023-O-2, 4-12-2023)
10-11-9. FINAL PLAT:
The Administrative Land Use Authority for approval of a Final Plat application shall be the
Town Manager. Upon approval of the Preliminary Plat by the Planning Commission, an
applicant shall submit a final plat, in recordable form, to the Town for its review and
approval. The submitted final plat shall be consistent with all provisions and conditions of
the Preliminary Plat. With the final plat, the applicant shall submit: (1) an updated
Preliminary Title Report issued within 30 days of the Final plat application showing
evidence of ownership for all parcels within the plat satisfactory in form to the Town

                                             10
attorney; and (2) any assurance for the installation of public improvements as required by
Town ordinance. The Town Manager shall review a complete Final Plat submittal within 30
days of receipt of the application by the Town, and shall approve the Final Plat if it is
consistent with the approved Preliminary Plat and any conditions of approval.




                                           11
