Alta Town Council Staff

Report



To: Town Council
From: Chris Cawley, Town Manager
Re: Proposed Amendments to Town of Alta Code Section 10-11 Subdivisions
Date: September 4th 2024
Attachments: Draft Amended Subdivision Ordinance


Background

SB 174 and HB 406 from the 2023 General Legislative Session require all local governments to,
among other things, modify their subdivision ordinances to comply with the process described in
the statute for subdivision application, review, and approval. As a municipality with fewer than
5000 residents, Alta has until December 31, 2024 to bring our subdivision ordinance into
compliance with this legislation. Key details of the municipal process required by this legislation
include:

    •   Municipalities must use a 2-step process for application review including preliminary and
        final review and approval
    •   Either planning commissions or staff can approve preliminary applications, but only staff
        can approve final applications; legislative bodies may not review or approve subdivision
        applications

The 2023 legislation also authorized state funding for municipalities to hire consultants to draft
subdivision ordinance amendments. The funding was administered by the State of Utah, and the
State held contracts with consultants on behalf of municipalities, which meant that cities and towns
did not disburse or receive any funding. The Town of Alta hired Todd Godfrey, attorney with Hayes
Godfrey Bell, from a list of consultants authorized to receive these contracts and Mr. Godfrey has
been working with staff and the planning commission on updates to our subdivision ordinance.

Alta Planning Commission Process to Develop Amended Subdivision Ordinance

The planning commission discussed amendments to the Town of Alta Subdivision Ordinance over
the course of three separate meetings in 2024. At their August 28th meeting, the commission held a
public hearing and voted to recommend the amended ordinance included in the September 11th,
2024 Alta Town Council meeting packet. The commission settled on recommending the following
substantive changes:

    •   The commission felt that given the unique environmental and regulatory components of
        development in Alta, and that it is unlikely there will be numerous applications to subdivide
        land in Alta in the future, it is appropriate for there to be some component of public
        process in the event the Town does receive a subdivision application. To address these
        concerns, the Alta Planning Commission is proposed to be the preliminary subdivision
        application review authority, and it will conduct one public hearing prior to approving
        preliminary subdivision applications that meet applicable local and state requirements.
    •   The commission recommends requiring a preliminary title report as part of a preliminary
        subdivision application and an updated preliminary title report as part of a final subdivision
        application.
    •   Consistent with state law, the Town Manager (staff) has authority to review final
        subdivision applications.

The commission included in its motion a recommendation for the Town to update Alta Code
section 10-5 APPEAL AUTHORITY to specify an administrative appeal authority for subdivision
approvals, based on advice from Mr. Godrey. Currently, section 10-5 establishes the town council
as the appeal authority for all Town of Alta land use decisions with no specific provision for
subdivision approvals. State law does not expressly require municipalities to designate
administrative appeal authorities for subdivisions. However, since the legislature does expressly
require municipalities to designate an administrative land use authority for subdivision applications
and defines administrative land use authority to exclude a municipal legislative body (Utah Code
Annotated 10-9a-603.1 (1)), the law can be construed to mean that city or town councils cannot
hear subdivision approval appeals. In the present day, it is most common for Utah municipalities to
designate a law-trained individual such as an administrative law judge or lawyer to serve as a land
use appeal authority including for subdivision approvals. The commission may consider such an
update as a stand-alone ordinance project or as part of a larger package of Town of Alta code
updates in the future.

September 11, 2024 Town Council Meeting

The agenda for the September 11th Town Council Meeting includes a presentation on the draft
amended subdivision ordinance developed and recommended to the council by the Alta Planning
Commission. Todd Godfrey will join the meeting to help introduce the draft ordinance and the
background to the project. Because members of the council may be absent from the September
meeting, we are not asking the council to consider approving the amended ordinance in the
meeting, and hopefully any issues that arise in the council’s discussion can be addressed in time to
approve the ordinance before the end of 2024.




                                                                                                   2
