Town Council
Staff Memo

From: Chris Cawley, Town Manager and Jen Clancy, Town Clerk
Date Written: September 20, 2024

At the September 11, 2024 Alta Town Council meeting, Town Manager, Chris Cawley and Town
Clerk, Jen Clancy presented a small list of proposed budget adjustments. Due to the impact of
these adjustments the council requested a formal budget amendment and public hearing occur
in October instead of having the Town Clerk make administrative adjustments to the budget
with no net change to each respective fund.

General Fund

Alta Justice Court

Up until our recent Utah Retirement Services (URS) audit, we had thought that Judge Farr was
not eligible for URS contributions because he worked for us part-time. However, during our
audit we discovered that a Justice Court Judge in the Tier 1 system meets eligibility for
retirement benefits based on earnings alone (regardless of part-time or full-time status). To gain
compliance we are required to contribute based on Judge Farr’s previous 4 years of wages and
continue to contribute moving forward. The backpay is $5,163.55 and the annual cost of our
URS contribution for Judge Farr will be about $1,600 annually based on the Judge’s current
salary.

For now, I have reduced the contribution to the Capital Improvement Fund so there is no net
change to the General Fund.

Water Fund

Peruvian Estates West

In 2023, the Town of Alta replaced a pressure reducing valve and a segment of a culinary water
line in the Peruvian Estates West area. This summer, residents and property owners in Peruvian
Estates West notified the Town that the parking area that was excavated and then regraded
during the project was finished with too steep a grade for safe parking during the winter season.
The Town would like to bring in additional material and attempt to level the area out. We have
received a bid for $5,600 to do the work. The original project initially came in $57,790 under
budget so we are hoping to put $5,600 in this year’s budget to level out the slope of the parking
area.

Road Maintenance
During our budgeting process we didn’t identify roadwork as a project or something we should
be budgeting for. The Town has an interest in maintaining the Michigan City Road up to where
our water storage tank is located. We are seeking to add $2,000 to the building and grounds
code to be able to perform some road improvements.

Engineering

We budgeted $15,000 for engineering work for the rope town water line loop that we hope to
partner with the Alta Ski Area on next summer. Work to date on the Town’s Water and Sewer
Master Plan project has indicated a need to include a pressure reducing valve to the project,
which was not previously assumed to be part of the project. This will increase design and capital
costs and we’d like to increase the budget by $5,000 to total $20,000.

For now, these changes to the water fund are offset by a reduction in the infrastructure
replacement contribution. That line item has been reduced from $100,000 to $88,150 (reduced
by $11,850) with no net change to the water fund expenditures.
