Town of Alta: Facilities Master Plan - Project Update

FFKR Architects was on-site to conduct building measurements and establish building ﬂoor plans
on September 18th, 2024. These ﬂoor plans were used to establish how much square footage is
currently allocated to various functional groups – Administration, 3rd Party O ice, Community
Services, Marshal, Support Spaces, Building Systems, and
Circulation. These groups will be used throughout the facility
master plan as a means of grouping similarly used spaces
together. The total amount of square footage for the three
Town facilities, as well as a breakdown based on the
functional group is shown in Table 1. Graph 1 illustrates the
use of current square footage based on a percent of the total
Town square footage. Floor plans with room/space names and
square footage are included with the council packet and color
coded to match the functional group the space is assigned to.      Table 1. Town of Alta Current SF


                                                                     On October 9th, FFKR Architects
                                                                     was back in Alta with their team
                                                                     of consulting engineers to begin
                                                                     work on the facility assessment
                                                                     portion of the project. The
                                                                     assessment team walked each
                                                                     building, noting areas of
                                                                     concern and taking
                                                                     photographs of equipment and
                                                                     other existing conditions. These
                                                                     conditions are documented in
                                                                     the building assessment
                                                                     document that is included in
                                                                     the council packet, along with
Graph 1. Percent of Town of Alta Current SF
                                                                     preliminary ﬁndings and
                                                                     recommendations.

While a portion of FFKR’s team was conducting the building assessment, another portion engaged
in interviews with town sta including but not limited to: Chris Cawley, Jen Clancey, Mike Morey,
and Mayor Bourke. Sarah McCloskey and Sarah Gibbs (executive director of Alta Community
Enrichment) were interviewed remotely previous to the 9th due to schedule conﬂicts. Interviews
dealt with understanding how town sta currently operated and how the spaces impacted their
work, what future spaces would be required or desired for work, and thoughts on the future of the
facility they use. A summary of the interview notes and a full copy of those notes will be provided in
upcoming interim deliverables.
                                                                                   Based on
                                                                                   conversations with
                                                                                   those previously
                                                                                   interviewed, it is
                                                                                   apparent that for
                                                                                   most functional
                                                                                   groups, they have
                                                                                   mostly su icient
                                                                                   space for their
                                                                                   current and
                                                                                   forecasted needs.
                                                                                   The main group that
                                                                                   will require
                                                                                   additional space in
  Table 2. Current vs Needs SF Comparison                                          the future is the
                                                                                   Marshal’s Service
(refer to Table 2). This is due to Alta Central serving as a dispatch center and police o ice, but not
having all of the necessary spaces required to properly do so. For example, marshal’s do not have
an enclosed parking location for when they are on duty. This could lead to very delayed response
times when a marshal has to shovel out their vehicle. Another example is not having proper storage
space for their weapons and ammunitions, or having a secure location to detain someone without
having the marshal take them to Sandy City (leaving the Town without an on-duty o icer). Due to
the need for additional spaces to remedy the issues above, there is a need for approximately 3,000
additional square feet for the marshals. Some of the spaces we outline in our full report could also
be mandated in the future due to legislative requirements from the State.



Visioning Workshop

On November 13th FFKR Architects will join with the Town Council for a project visioning workshop.
If possible, it would work best for all those in attendance to have a tablet or computer so they can
access Miro and participate in the workshop through the online platform. Instructions on how to
sign up for a free account are included in the council packet. We will also have sticky notes and
papers to do the activity physically as needed.

During the workshop we will discuss the collective Council’s future goals and hopes for Town
facilities. Our team will help facilitate the conversation and ask questions to ensure a clear
direction as guiding principles for facilities are established. These principles will be used as our
team moves forward to making formal recommendations and understanding how the current
facilities can be best utilized in the future, as well as any possible future facilities.

We will wrap up the visioning session by providing a high level overview of the preliminary ﬁndings
of the facility assessments. We will also ask Council members to participate in an online, live
survey to help establish what the Council thinks should be prioritized for each facility’s building
systems (electrical, plumbing, structural, accessibility, et cetera). This information will then be
used to weigh the data provided by the design team to establish the ﬁnal recommendation for each
building and the path forward for the rest of the project. A preliminary mind map included in the
council packet shows possible paths forward – arrows shown in black are examples and not
ﬁnalized recommendations.



Public Outreach

Public outreach e orts will begin the week after Thanksgiving. We plan to conduct a survey online
starting on December 4th and closing on the 15th. Additionally, members of our team will be in Alta
on December 11th to conduct in-person outreach e orts. Information will be provided related to the
ﬁndings of the building assessments. Questions will center on: ways that residents and community
members beneﬁt or use each facility, conﬁrm or establish changed preferences related to Town
facility uses, evaluate the desire for community focused or essential services focused spaces, and
generate ideas for future programming in renovated or reprogrammed existing facilities, or new
facilities (dependent on results of building assessments).
Town of Alta
Facility Master Plan
Building Assessment



            FT
     R    A
   D
Town of Alta Facilities Condition Assessment
Assessment Approach and Summary

Located at the top of Little Cottonwood Canyon, the Town of Alta has a rich history of
mining and outdoor recreation. Founded in about 1865, the town has transformed from
a bustling mining community to the location of one of the nation’s premier ski resorts
and home to just over 220 residents.

The buildings owned by the Town that are the subject of this Facilities Assessment are
the Alta Town Office, Alta Central and the Community Center. The Tom Moore Toilet
will be addressed in a separate, focused evaluation.




                                                         T
 In October 2024, FFKR conducted a site visit to the Town to investigate and review the
overall condition of all three buildings. The scope of this report is to document the




                                                       F
findings and classify the general conditions. The structural, mechanical and electrical
systems are the subject of specific evaluations by consulting engineers and are attached




                               A
as an appendix to this report. FFKR has specifically addressed the following
components of each of the three buildings:




                             R
       Visible Foundation System
       Building Envelope and Finish Materials




               D
       Exterior Window and Door Openings
       Roofing
       Interior Features and Finishes
       Site Access and Overall Accessibility

In addition to a description of characteristics and current condition of these items, we
have proposed a “Good”, “Better”, “Best” approach for the correction / remediation or
further action that should be taken to stabilize the components. As a rule of thumb, the
“Good” recommendation would be considered a “low hanging fruit” approach to
prevent deterioration or correct a minor issue, the implementation of the “Better”
recommendations would be an approach that would require a moderate expense to
correct an issue and the implementation of the “Best” approach would be an approach
to completely replace a problematic condition.

Our consulting engineers have identified components of examination specific to their
own disciplines. Their findings are contained within this document.

The following page is a summary of the overall condition of each of the three buildings.
Individual Building Condition Assessment Summary



 Facility:                   Town Office Building

 Discipline                  Overall Recommendation                      Overall Score
 Architectural               Remodel/Upgrade                                             2
 Electrical                  Remodel/Upgrade                                             2
 Structural                  Remain                                                      3
 Mechanical                  Remain                                                      3
 Average:                                                                                3
 Recommendation:             Remain




                                                             T
 Facility:                   Alta Central




                                                            F
 Discipline                  Overall Recommendation                      Overall Score




                                                          A
 Architectural               Demolition/New Construction                                 1
 Electrical                  Demolition/New Construction                                 1




                          R
 Structural                  Remodel/Upgrade                                             2
 Mechanical                  Remodel/Upgrade                                             2




                         D
 Average:                                                                                2
 Recommendation:             Remodel/Upgrade*



 Facility:                   Community Center

 Discipline                  Overall Recommendation                      Overall Score
 Architectural               Demolition/New Construction                                 1
 Electrical                  Demolition/New Construction                                 1
 Structural                  Demolition/New Construction                                 1
 Mechanical                  Remodel/Upgrade                                             2
 Average:                                                                                1
 Recommendation:             Demolition/New Construction




*Based on current code, this facility does not currently meet the standards for a Risk
Category IV building. The services provided from this building would need to be relocated or
the building would require extensive and likely costly upgrades.
Town of Alta
Facility Master Plan
Building Assessment:
Town Office Building


             FT
      R    A
     D
Alta Town Office
Built in 1994, the Alta Town Office is a two-story cast in place concrete structure with
punched openings for windows and doors. The building is an administrative office
building with offices and meeting spaces for town administrative staff, the mayor, town
council and other governmental employees.

Visible Foundation System
The building is partially recessed into the hillside with the south and east entrance
doors at grade. The grading of the hill slopes along the west wall, with the highest
portion at the rear (north) and lowest at the front (south) of the building. The visible
portion of the foundation system is cast-in-place concrete stem integral to the building




                                                          T
exterior wall. There is no differentiation between foundation and wall. The east entry
has a concrete column supported bearing on a concrete grade beam. The rear (north)




                                                        F
wall is only partially exposed above the hillside and forms a site retaining wall. The hill
continues to rise behind the building. The grading immediately adjacent to the building
has been adjusted to slope away from the wall to a catch basin to capture and direct




                                A
runoff away from the building. The early autumn timing of the site visit coincided with
the trees on the site beginning to drop their leaves. Site landscaping is mostly naturally




                              R
occurring plants and are right up against the foundation and retaining walls.

The concrete foundation and retaining walls are in good overall condition and do not




               D
exhibit areas of spalling, honeycomb or significant cracking.

Recommended Measures
Good – Periodic pressure wash cleaning and inspection of the
foundation and retaining walls.

Better - Loose leaves and other vegetation adjacent to the
foundation should be removed to maintain a 3’-0” minimum
buffer against the concrete walls. The buffer will prevent water
from being held against the foundation and retaining walls and
reduce potential water infiltration and concrete damage from
freeze/thaw action during cold weather.

Best – No recommendations.

Building Envelope and Exterior Finish Materials
The exterior walls are cast-in-place concrete and are integral with the foundation walls.
The concrete is a smooth form finish and has exposed cone tie recesses and defined
form lines. The south wall is punctuated by metal panel infill with windows and a door
and a large projecting metal panel bay. The interface of the metal panel and the
concrete appears to be sealed effectively with an elastomeric sealant.

The east wall acts as a partial retaining wall as the slope of the hill progress from front
(south) to rear (north). The main entrance is located at the second floor level and is
comprised of an aluminum storefront system vestibule with full height windows and a
glass door. The entry is protected by a triangular shaped concrete canopy. The top of
the concrete wall is discolored from water resting on the top surface of the wall and
then running down the exposed face. It appears that the partial parapet cap (see the
Roofing section) has steel components which are rusting as the water streaks from the
top of the wall appear to be rust colored. There is surface mounted conduit that wraps




                                                           T
over the top of the entry vestibule connecting the electrical meter and service panel on
the wall to the right of the entry and a convenience outlet box and additional conduit




                                                         F
extending below grade to the left of the entry. At the time of the visit, the main entry
door was damaged and in need of repair.




                                A
The west wall acts as a partial retaining wall as the slope of the hill progress from front
(south) to rear (north). This wall has one punched opening filled with metal panel and




                              R
a window, similar to the south wall.




               D
The north wall is acting as a retaining wall and only the top of the wall is exposed to
view. The hill slopes gently from east to west and the wall exposure increases from
about 4 feet to about 7 feet as the slope extends to the west.

Recommended Measures
Good – Periodic pressure wash cleaning and inspection of the foundation and retaining
walls. Periodic inspection of the sealant at the metal panel to concrete interface.

Better – Landscape maintenance as describe in the Visible Foundation System section.

Best – No recommendations.



Exterior Windows and Doors
There are six windows and two entry doors in the building. The windows and doors
are anodized aluminum storefront systems. The windows are all set into metal panel
walls that infill punch openings in the cast-in-place concrete walls. Four of the
windows are a combination of a narrow, operable casement window which pivots
outward, hinged on the left jamb, flanked by wider fixed windows. Two windows are
similar but, consist of a single operable casement flanked by one fixed window. The
windows have triple glazed insulated glazing units (IGU). The IGU’s do not have
moisture inside the units, as such, the units appear to remain sealed. The glazing type
in the windows is unknown, but their age suggests that the glass would be low-E at a
minimum. The windows, which are also assumed to be thermally broken, will have
slightly above-average energy conservation performance.

The storefront door systems are also anodized aluminum and match the window
sightlines and detailing. Both door systems are mulled together with windows, the
main entry also has a transom. It is also assumed that the IGU’s have intact internal
seals as no moisture was observed between panes of glass.




                                                          T
Recommended Measures
Good – Periodic cleaning and inspection of window seals. Any evidence of moisture




                                                        F
between panes should be remedied by replacing the IGU. Adopt a periodic
maintenance schedule with regular lubrication of operating hardware.




                                A
Better – Replace the IGU’s with spectrally selective glazing (i.e. SolarBan 90) when
internal seal failure occurs.




                              R
Best – Immediate replacement of the window IGU’s with a spectrally selective glazing.




               D
This will increase the window energy performance but the energy cost savings would
not likely return the investment in IGU replacement.



Roofing
The building has three areas of membrane roofing – the main building, the concrete
canopy and the main entry storefront system. Only the main roof and the concrete
canopy roofing were readily accessible for visual inspection. The roofing membrane
appears to be a white TPO. The roofing may be PVC, but the typical dark colored line
at the membrane seams is missing. The membrane installation is assumed to be a 20
year warranty system as vertical surface termination bar lacks the usual counter
flashing required for a 30 year installation warranty. There is no obvious visual
indication of exposed scrim, pinholes or seam separation and no obvious signs of roof
leaks inside the building. The membrane appears to be in good condition, but based on
the age of the building, this is likely the original roof membrane and plans should be
made for replacement in the next 5 years.
Drainage is facilitated by a primary roof drain near the north wall of the building
supplemented by a trough wall scupper on the west. The drain has heat tracing, but the
functionality of the system was not verified. The concrete canopy roof drains onto the
main roof through a small (approx. 3” dia.) round scupper. The roof appears to drain
reasonably well, there is evidence of small areas of ponding, but these are limited in size
and are not suspected of being an issue. The early autumn timing of the site visit
coincided with the trees on the site beginning to drop their leaves and the leaves have
accumulated along the edges of the parapet walls and roof drain.

Penetrations through the roof are limited to the roof drain and one 4” pipe flue/vent.
The vent has a low pipe jack with a clamping band and sealant.




                                                           T
The parapet walls are an extension of the cast-in-place concrete walls and terminate




                                                         F
with a low slope to the exterior. There is a galvanized parapet cap that covers half the
width of the exterior wall and extends down the inside face about 4”. The cap appears




                                A
to be in good condition with the vertical seams not exhibiting damage or open gaps.
The concrete canopy membrane extends up the face of the parapet, over the top and
terminates with a termination bar located about 1/4 the width of the wall from the




                              R
outside edge. There is no parapet cap at the concrete canopy. The lack of a parapet cap
on the canopy and the cap not extending to the outside face of the main parapet walls




               D
was a conscious design decision based on the aesthetic of the clean concrete edge at the
top of the wall. This decision results in a compromise to the performance of the roofing
membrane termination on the top of the wall.

Recommended Measures
Good – Frequent removal of the leaves and other debris from the membrane to protect
the drain from clogging.

Better – Replacement of the pipe vent sealant.

Best – Replacement of the vent pipe jack boot with a boot that is 12” or taller. Install a
Presto-tite roof edge metal system when the roofing membrane is replaced. This is a
system where the membrane wraps over the top of the wall and down the face of the
exterior 3” and is covered with a two-piece edge metal. This system provides a much
more robust waterproof detail at the top of wall condition.



Interior Features and Finishes
The interior of the office is in very good condition. Interior walls are painted gypsum
board with exposed concrete columns. There are clerestory windows on the second-
level to project as much natural light as possible into the building interior.

Ceilings are a combination of exposed concrete and lay-in acoustic tile. Only one area
of the first level at the southeast window has any evidence of roof or piping leakage.
The leakage is suspected to be caused by the projecting metal panel bay window system
on the second-floor. The storage room on the first level is a gypsum board ceiling.
Ceiling lighting is a combination of surface mounted and grid mounted fluorescent
troffers. There are a few incandescent light fixtures in back-of-house service areas.

Flooring throughout the hallways and offices are carpet tile and rubber base. The




                                                         T
second-floor vestibule and reception area is a walk-off carpet. The second-floor
work/breakroom and skis/coats room are VCT tile with rubber base. The restrooms are




                                                       F
ceramic or porcelain tile with a cove base. The interior stairway is rubber treads and
risers with a contrasting tread edge. The stairway intermediate landing and floor,




                                A
janitor’s closets, and mechanical room are exposed concrete. The stair landing has a
rubber base, but the janitor’s closet and mechanical rooms have no base. Transitions
between flooring types are rubber transition profiles.




                              R
The handrail and guardrail in the interior stair are wood. The outside of the stair has a




               D
code compliant unfinished wood handrail, while the interior is a “bread loaf” railing
that is not compliant with the current building code. The rail does not continue around
the intermediate landing newel post un-interrupted, nor does the rail extend the
required distance at the top and bottom of the stair.



Recommended Measures
Good – Replace incandescent lamps with LED
lamps– see electrical narrative.

Better – Replace fluorescent light fixtures with
LED – see electrical narrative.

Best – Replace stair guardrail / handrail with a
system that is compliant with the current
building code.
Site Access and Overall Accessibility

Because the building is built into a steep hill, the building does not have an accessible
path from a parking area. The two sidewalk approaches to the entries are both close to
being accessible but have glaring failures. Despite the accessibility failures, the walks
are comfortable to navigate, and most visitors will likely have no issues gaining access
to the building. Of the two walks, the first-level entrance is the closest to an accessible
path, but the sidewalk stops short of the road and has a short section of vegetation
interrupting the path. The second-level walk has a step at the bottom that also
interrupts the walk from the road. Both approach walks appear to be close to the 5%
maximum slope, but likely exceed that limit.




                                                           T
Accessibility within the building is also not compliant with the current accessibility
standards in most cases. Both the entry lobby reception desk and the first-level work




                                                         F
desk millwork have a decorative projection feature that are too small to act as accessible
transaction counters. The first-level restrooms are not accessible as the sink and toilet
are too close together to provide the required clearances. The current standards for




                                A
accessibility also include vertical grab bars in restrooms which are missing in the
restrooms in the building. The door hardware is accessible. The building does not have




                              R
an elevator or wheelchair lift to provide an accessible path between floors. This is not
necessarily and issue if the services provided are available in an area on an accessible
path.




               D
Recommended Measures
Good – Verify the actual slope of the walks. Remove the vegetation at the first-level
entrance walk and pour a concrete strip to connect the walk to the road. Remove the
step at the bottom of the second-level entrance walk and pour a concrete strip to
connect the walk to the road. Verify clearances in restrooms and remove the accessible
restroom signage at restrooms which do not comply.

Better – Add vertical grab bars to the restrooms.

Best – Remove both walks and reconstruct new walks that
meet accessibility requirements with proper slopes, edge
protection and handrails. Reconfigure the lobby reception
desk and the first-level work desk to have an ADA
transaction counters that conform to the current accessibility
standard. Reconfigure at least one restroom into a multi-
gender, single occupant to comply with accessibility requirements.
   TOWN OFFICE BUILDING – Structural Assessment

   The building structure is a two-level concrete structure with a concrete roof and floor, interior
   concrete columns and exterior concrete bearing shear walls. The foundation system is a
   conventional spread footing foundation. The age of construction is approximately 1993.

   As a general assessment, observation indicates that the structure is in excellent condition with no
   signs of distress and that it has supported snow and avalanche loading during the time of use.
   Review of the existing structural drawings indicate that the design is well thought out with positive
   load paths occurring from roof to foundation.




                                                     T
   An avalanche hazard and load analysis study was performed for the site prior to design and the
   structural engineer adequately addressed this loading in his design. This is noted in a




                                                    F
   correspondence between the structural plan reviewer and Alta’s Town Manager. The Governing
   code at the time of design was the 1991 Uniform Building Code (UBC). The current code is the
   2021 International Building Code (IBC). There have been significant changes made for seismic




                                                  A
   and wind loading criteria since the UBC. In some cases, the loading has decreased slightly. But
   because the structure was designed for extreme avalanche loading it is reasonable to assume that
   current IBC earthquake and wind loading would not control the design and except for some




                   R
   required detailing changes, the structure may be close to meeting the current code provisions.

   The design considered a floor live loading criteria of 100 pounds per square foot (PSF), which is




                  D
   well above current IBC required loading of 50 PSF for offices. The higher loading is typically
   required for assembly loading such as meeting halls, restaurants, and auditoriums.

   Conclusion - The Town Hall Building is in excellent condition and is anticipated to perform
   well during a seismic, wind, or avalanche event. The roof structure can support heavy snow
   loading without the need for shoveling. Thus, continued use of the building can be anticipated for
   future years.




1805 South Redwood Road, Suite 102, Salt Lake City, Utah        84104    T 801-466-1699      F 801-467-2495
MECHANICAL and Plumbing ASSESSMENT
Project: Town of Alta Master Plan – Town Offices
October 2024
Principal Engineer: Vinnie Figlioli, PE

William Levitt Town Office Building – Assessment

Mechanical and Plumbing Overview




                                               T
The building is a two story concrete building that was built in 1993. The building is
conditioned by two natural gas furnaces. One furnace for each level. The furnaces are




                                              F
both located in the first floor mechanical room. Outside air is routed from a side wall
louver and ducted to each furnace with associated balancing dampers. Both furnaces
were replaced in 2022




                                            A
The over all plumbing system of the building seems to be in good working order. The
water heater is located within the first floor mechanical room and was replaced in 2017.




                R
Fixtures are from the original build.

No fire suppression system was found within the building.




               D
Mechanical Assessment

The mechanical system matches the original design intent with some variation to the
size of the furnaces. The furnaces have been replaced with slightly larger units. This
is not an issue and will not affect the performance or life of the furnaces. The furnaces
have been maintained and seem to be in good working order.

All ducting, registers, grilles, and louvers are in good working condition.

Plumbing Assessment

The plumbing system matches the original design intent and does not appear to be
modified. Some fixtures have been replaced but the majority of the fixtures are original
to the 1993 build out.

The water heater was replaced in 2017 and seems to be in good working condition.
PRV station is operational and no visual leaks were observed.

The main plumbing vents through the roof are extended and are intact. The roof drain
needs to be cleaned but no damage was observed.


                                                                               Page 1 of 3
Fire Suppression Assessment

No fire suppression system within the building. It is assumed that this was not required
at the time of the original construction.

Equipment Information

                             ASHRAELife
Equipment         Age (yrs) Expectancy (yrs) Size
1st Floor Furnace          4                18 97,000 BTUH




                                                  T
2nd Floor Furnace          4                18 97,000 BTUH
Water Heater               7          12 to 15 (2) 4.5 Kw Elect




                                                 F
Recommendations and Priorities:




                                               A
                                      Recommendations




                 R
All recommended upgrades are prioritized from 1-3 where:
              Highly recommended upgrades (code violation, life safety, outdated systems, poor
        1)
              conditions, or similar)




                D
              Recommended upgrades (border line code violation, upgrades that provide
        2)
              additional comfort or value, or similar)
        3)    Optional upgrades (owner desired)
     Area            Systems                         Recommendation                            Priority
  First Floor       Mech Ducting       Clean all existing ducting and grilles                      3
 Second Floor       Mech Ducting       Clean all existing ducting and grilles                      3
                                       Addition of a Building Automation System for
      All            Mechanical
                                       remote access and control                                   3
                                       Replace plumbing fixtures with water saving
     All              Plumbing
                                       fixtures.                                                   3
                                       Explore the possibility of adding a fire suppression
      All          Fire suppression
                                       system.                                                     3




                                                                                              Page 2 of 3
Summary

The current mechanical and plumbing systems within the building are in good working
order. The major equipment has all been replaced within the last 4-7 years and does
not appear to have any issues. This building is in good working order.

Thank you for choosing Spectrum Engineers to provide this assessment. If you have
any questions or would like further information, please do not hesitate to contact me
directly.




                                                    T
Sincerely,




                                                   F
By:




                                                 A
      Vinnie Figlioli, P.E. Principal Mechanical Engineer




                  DR
                                                                              Page 3 of 3
                                                                                        Town of Alta Facilities – Town Offices
                                                                                               Electrical Assessment Report


Town of Alta Facilities - Town Offices
Electrical Assessment Report
October 29th, 2024


1. Electrical Service and Power

   a. Electrical service is provided by Rocky Mountain Power (RMP).
   b. As no other utility equipment is spotted close to the building, we have assumed that the
      building is fed from a nearby pole mounted, single-phase tub transformer (Exhibit 1). This
      assumption to be confirmed by the Owner.




                                                                  T
   c.   The meter (meter # 50 823 601) and main service disconnect are located outside the building at
        the main entry. The as-built drawings indicate the service disconnect size to be 200A, but we




                                                                 F
        have observed a 150A (120/240V, 1ph, 3w) breaker during the site visit (Exhibit 4).




                    R                                          A
                   D
         Exhibit 1 – Utility transformer (assumed) for Town Office and
                      Marshall Building electrical service
                                                                         Exhibit 2 – Town Office and Marshall Building electrical service
                                                                                         meter and service disconnect




           Exhibit 3 – Town Office and Marshall Building electrical      Exhibit 4 – Town Office and Marshall Building electrical service
                                service meter                                           main service disconnect – 150A

   d. We have also assumed that the Marshall Building is fed from the same service. This
      assumption to be confirmed by the Owner.
                                                                     Town of Alta Facilities – Town Offices
                                                                            Electrical Assessment Report

e. The capacity of the existing electrical service has been verified by using the peak demand data
   from the RMP power bills from July 2023 to August 2024. Since the power factor information has
   not been provided, we have assumed the power factor to be 0.9. The existing service has 32%
   spare capacity. The service appears to be adequate for the current electrical loads. If major
   renovations, additions, or large loads (such as elevator and similar loads) are planned in the
   future, the service size should be checked again at that time and the transformer size should be
   coordinated with RMP.




                                                   FT
                R                                A
f.             D
     The main service disconnect feeds panelboard A located at the lower level. The panelboard is
     installed in 1993, it has a few spare circuit breakers, and it appears to be in fair condition. The
     panelboard has another 10-15 years of useful life.
g. The office building is also backed up by the diesel generator located at the Marshall Building. We
   were not able to determine during the site visit how the generator connects to the office building.
   This will have to be further investigated if the renovations or additions are considered.
h. Grounding and bonding systems, including grounding electrodes and bonding jumpers, were not
   completely accessible or visible during the site observations. The only observed grounding
   electrode was water pipe. These portions of the electrical system are critical to safety and power
   quality of the system. Further investigation should be done to confirm the existence, resistance
   readings and condition of the grounding and bonding systems. A licensed electrician will be
   required to safely open and check these systems.
                                                                                                 PAGE 2
                                                                               Town of Alta Facilities – Town Offices
                                                                                      Electrical Assessment Report




                          Exhibit 5 – Panelboard A                   Exhibit 6 – Standby generator in the Marshall Building




                                                                 T
   i.   A large mechanical duct is located above the boiler disconnect switch which not in compliance
        with NEC 110.26 (E). This should be fixed in by relocating the duct or the disconnect.




                                                                F
   j.   The wiring devices (light switches, receptacles, etc.) appear to be in good conditions.
   k.   The women’s restroom receptacle outlet is not GFCI protected as required in NEC 210.8 (B)(1). It




                                                              A
        is unknown if the outlet is protected by an upstream GFCI outlet. This should be further
        investigated and a proper GFCI protection should be provided.




   l.             DR
           Exhibit 7 – Mechanical duct above the boiler disconnect       Exhibit 8 – Existing receptacle and data outlet

        There were no visible surge suppression devices installed in this building. It is recommended to
        install surge suppression devices on the main service panel and at the selected panelboards that
        serve sensitive loads or expensive equipment.

2. Lighting System

   a. Most of the building has florescent lights. Incandescent bulbs are still present at some locations
      (janitor closet, for example).
   b. The existing light sources are outdated and inefficient. All existing light fixtures and bulbs are
      recommended to be replaced with new LED lighting. Each space will need to be evaluated
      individually to determine the extent of the upgrade needed.


                                                                                                                   PAGE 3
                                                                           Town of Alta Facilities – Town Offices
                                                                                  Electrical Assessment Report

   c.   The as-built drawings indicate the presence of the egress lighting fixtures with the integral battery
        packs. We were not able to field verify the egress light levels (1 fc average, and 0.1 fc minimum).
        If the lighting upgrade is considered in the future, the egress lighting should be completely
        upgraded at that time.
   d. Existing lighting controls consist almost solely of the toggle switches. A couple of wall mounted
      occupancy sensors are observed in the restrooms.
   e. Significant upgrades to the interior and exterior lighting control systems are needed to meet the
      latest energy codes. There are opportunities for energy savings by installing lighting controls such
      as occupancy sensors and timed relay controls.




                                                               FT
                   R                                         A
                  Exhibit 9 – Fluorescent surface troffers   Exhibit 10 –Fluorescent light and occupancy sensor switch




                  D
3. Fire Alarm System

   a. There is no fire alarm system in the building.

4. Telecommunication System

   a. The demarcation equipment and main telecom rack are located in the boiler room at the lower
      level.




                        Exhibit 11 – Telecom rack            Exhibit 12 - Furnace, duct, and pipes in front of telecom rack



                                                                                                              PAGE 4
                                                                       Town of Alta Facilities – Town Offices
                                                                              Electrical Assessment Report

   b. The furnace, mechanical ducts, and pipes are located right in front of the telecom rack, providing
      barely any clearance for proper access to the telecommunications equipment.
   c.   There is no dedicated A/C system nor telecommunication ground bus bar.

5. Security Systems

   a. Except one camera in the main lobby, no other security system devices are observed.

6. Audio/Video

   a. Conference Room Video system consists solely of a wall mounted display. There are no
      provisions for Video Conferencing, nor connection of video inputs at the conference Table.




                                                               T
   b. Assuming display Is used to shop technical content, display is undersized.
   c.   There are no provisions for in room voice lift. – The room is small enough that the Video
        Conferencing bar is appropriate




                                                              F
   d. There is no floor box below the conference table, limiting cable options.




                   R                                        A
                  D
                Exhibit 13 – Conference Room AV System          Exhibit 14 – Conference Room Display Mounting




             Exhibit 15 Conference Room Table – w/o floor box




                                                                                                       PAGE 5
                                                                       Town of Alta Facilities – Town Offices
                                                                              Electrical Assessment Report

Recommendations

The following table summarizes the list of the recommended upgraded. All recommended upgrades are
prioritized from 1 to 3, where:
        1  Highly recommended upgrades (code violations, life safety, fire hazards, outdated systems,
            poor conditions, and similar)
        2  Recommended upgrades (border line code violations, upgrades that provide additional
            comfort and flexibility, technology upgrades)
        3  Optional upgrades (owner desired upgrades)

 System                          Recommended Upgrade                                                 Priority




                                                     T
 Electrical distribution         • Provide additional field investigation as required to                 1
                                   identify and document exact connections between the




                                                    F
                                   building electrical service and the generator in the
                                   Marshall Building.

 Surge protection                • Provide surge protection at the main panel.                           2




                                                  A
 Electrical equipment            • Relocate the boiler disconnect switch.                                1
 clearance




                      R
 Grounding and bonding           • Hire a licensed electrician to confirm the existence,                 1
                                   provide resistance readings, and review the conditions of
                                   the grounding and bonding systems.




                     D
 GFCI outlets                    • Replace non-GFCI outlets with GFCI outlets in all                     1
                                   locations specified in NEC 210.8 (B).

 Lighting                        • Replace all lights with the outdated light sources                    1
                                   (fluorescent and incandescent) with new LED lights.
                                 • Provide required egress lighting.

 Lighting controls               • Provide new lighting controls for interior and exterior               1
                                   lighting as needed to comply with the latest adopted
                                   energy codes.

 Telecommunication system        • Provide dedicated telecom room with proper cooling and                2
                                   grounding for all telecom racks and equipment.

 Security system                 • As recommended by the Owner.                                          3

 Audio/Video system 1            • Relocated Video Conference bar from Council Chambers                  2
                                   to Conference Room.

 Audio/Video system 2            • Replace Display with 65” display                                      2



                                                                                                   PAGE 6
                                                         Town of Alta Facilities – Town Offices
                                                                Electrical Assessment Report


Audio/Video system 3   • Add Wireless presenter to extend connections to                   2
                         Conference Table.




                                        FT
                R                     A
               D
                                                                                     PAGE 7
Town of Alta
Facility Master Plan
Building Assessment:
Alta Central

              T
(Marshal's Building)

           A F
     DR
Alta Central

The Alta Central Building is a two-story wood-framed building with a partial basement
housing the Town Marshal’s Office. It is reported that the building was moved from Ft.
Douglas to its current location in the 1950’s. The building is consistent with the basic
layout of the type of building built as short-term offices and barracks during the lead-
up to WWII. It was not uncommon for these buildings to be considered surplus after
the war and many were sold and relocated. The building appears to be in good overall
condition but is woefully inadequate for the current use.

Visible Foundation System
The building is partially recessed into the hillside with the east entrance door at grade.




                                                           T
The grading of the hill slopes along the west wall, with the highest portion at the rear
(north) and lowest at the front (south) of the building. At first glance, the foundation




                                                         F
appears to be a stone rubble but is actually cast in place concrete faced with stone. The
mortar between the stones is in good condition and does not need to be repointed.
There are exposed electrical conduits that run the length of the foundation from east to




                                A
west at the foundation / building interface.




                              R
 The concrete foundation is board formed and appears to have been built quickly or by
relatively unskilled labor. The quality of the pour consolidation is moderate to poor
with areas of honeycombing and poorly formed corners. The basement level is only




               D
partially excavated, and the interior portions are single side formed against the native
soil. The area under the south porch is an addition of unknown date. This is apparent
by the exposed stone facing on the main foundation. The addition is a cast-in-place
foundation just above grade. There is no indication of the footing system, but it is
assumed to be a cast-in-place concrete spread footing.

The hillside behind the building slopes steeply to the foundation such that snow
accumulation and spring water runoff appear to collect against the building foundation.
There are mineral deposits on the interior face of the concrete foundation walls
indicating a history of water infiltration. At the time of the site visit, there were no
areas of damp or wet concrete visible.

Recommended Measures
Good – Remove all vegetation in a 3’-0” perimeter around the foundation to facilitate
drainage.

Better – Regrade the north hillside and install a drainage system to prevent water
collecting against the foundation wall.
Best – No recommendations.

Building Envelope and Exterior Finish Materials
The primary exterior finish material is a painted/stained wood shiplap siding with a 6”
exposure and painted/stained wood trim. The wood siding appears to be well
maintained. The paint/stain is beginning to appear a bit thin, but only areas at grade or
near snow accumulation exhibit peeling paint. A stone chimney matching the
foundation protrudes on the east façade an extends above the low-pitched gabled roof.
The top of the chimney is terminated with exposed clay flue liners projecting above the
stone. The south tile is a chase for a gas-fired appliance flue. A rope acting as a guy
wire is wrapped around the chimney and tied to the alarm tower on the roof and




                                                           T
extends the full length of the roof to the access ladder on the west end of the building
(see Roofing section).




                                                         F
Both building entrances are via deck topped with composite decking material. The east




                                A
entrance to the main level is at grade with a single step onto the deck. The south
entrance is via a short wood stair, a landing at the basement-level and a longer stair that
runs along the generator addition to a large deck over the addition at the main-level




                              R
entrance. The lower stair treads and stringers are wood and in need of repainting. The
longer stair has wood stringers and perforated metal treads. The handrail at the stair




               D
and deck are metal and do not meet the current code requirements for railings. A
projection extends above the main level decking on the southeast corner of the
generator addition. The projection is wrapped in siding and capped with a formed
sheet metal cap.

Recommended Measures
Good – Scrape and re-paint/stain the damaged wood siding, trim and stair finishes at
grade.

Better – Scrape and re-paint/stain all the wood siding, trim and stairs.

Best – Replace the stair and deck railings with code guardrails that conform to the
current accessibility standard.



Exterior Window and Door Openings
The exterior of the building is articulated with windows at regular intervals providing
natural light into all rooms on the main and second floor as well as the main room on
the basement south wall. The windows are a mixture of at least three types of windows
and appear to all be double-pane insulated glass units. The windows in the basement
are white vinyl single-hung windows, while the windows on the main and second
floors are dark bronze aluminum windows, some are single-hung and the remaining
are sliding. Many of the windows on the east, and south walls have been covered by
plywood or sheet acrylic. It is assumed this is a measure to protect the window glass
from damage due to snow drifting and ice dam curling from the roof. The result is a
negative impact on the quality of the associated interior spaces. The plywood on the
windows in the north wall may be as much of a solution for privacy and light control as
it is for window glass protection as it seems to only affect windows into private
sleeping rooms and a restroom.




                                                           T
The entrance doors, two into the basement, one at each main-level entrance and one at
the west end of the interior hallway on each of the main and second-levels are insulated




                                                         F
hollow metal doors. All appear to be in good condition and operate effectively, except
the door at the west end of the second-floor, which is severely rusted. The door at the




                                 A
west end of the main level has a large step down to grade. The same door at the
second-level has a small metal landing and stair to the roof.




                               R
Recommended Measures
Good – Verify gasketing at each exterior door. Replace the door at




                D
the west end of the second-floor hallway.

Better – Replace the plywood over the windows on the north
elevation with acrylic sheet.

Best – Replace the glazing in the covered windows with laminated
safety glazing and remove the coverings to improve the light
penetration into the interior.

Roofing
The main roof of the building is a low-slope hipped roof covered with metal shingles.
The metal shingles appear to have neem in place for some time and are in fair condition.
There are pipe vents that are damaged or broken. Attached to the roof near the east
ridges is a large metal tower supporting an audible alarm. Near the middle of the roof
is a collection of antennas. Attached to the west end of the roof, adjacent to the access
ladder is a satellite TV dish. The connection to the roofing could not be verified, but it is
suspected that the connection waterproofing is likely in need of maintenance.
As described in the exterior materials section, there is a rope that runs the fill length of
the building at about waist height, tied around each of the tower and antennas. It is
assumed this is a safety line for removing snow from the roof in the winter. The rope
and anchorages are not adequate to provide the necessary safety required for this use
and presents a very dangerous condition.

The small gable roof over the main entrance is supported by wood brackets and has
metal panel roofing. The roofing is not easily visible for inspection but is suspected to
be in good condition. The is no obvious signs of water leakage around the gable to wall
interfaces.

The main-level entrance deck over the generator addition consists of wood sleepers




                                                            T
over a white roofing membrane. It is suspected that the roof membrane, which is
almost entirely concealed from view is TPO to match the roof membrane on the City




                                                          F
Hall building. The only visual access to this membrane is through the ends of the
sleeper joists near the stair. A photo of the area reveals that the roof appears to be in




                                 A
very good condition. No obvious signs of roof leakage were visible inside the generator
addition.




                               R
Recommended Measures
Good – Inspect roof shingles for




                D
potential replacement. Remove the
dangerous rope safety line and
install adequate roof safety bollards
and wire rope safety lines.

Better – No recommendations.

Best – Replace roof panels and
shingles.



Interior Features and Finishes
The interior of the building is used as the Marshals office, living areas and private
sleeping quarters for Marshal personnel. The building finishes are very dated, but in
good condition. The building is currently configured to operate as a functional police
station and a dormitory for officers. The building could be better configured to
accommodate its dual nature.
Interior walls are wood framed covered with a mixture of wood paneling and painted
gypsum board. Flooring in the living spaces are carpet. Restrooms and the kitchen have
sheet linoleum with a cove base. Ceilings are painted gypsum board and a couple of
rooms have lay-in acoustical panels in a suspended grid. The main living space has a
large stone faced fireplace. The stone on the north side is stained with what appears to
be white paint or mineral deposits. The kitchen and restrooms storage consists of low
quality, DIY feeling cabinets. The quality of the cabinetry has a significant contribution
to the building’s exceedingly rustic feel.

Access to the second floor is via a narrow, winding stair near the main entrance. The
flooring on the wood stair treads is ill fitting pre-formed rubber stair treads. The
private sleeping rooms are cramped and do not offer much personal space, with the




                                                           T
exception of the large “suite” at the east end of the hall. This room is large, seems to




                                                         F
have a fair amount of unused space.

The unfinished basement is accessed by an unfinished wood stair. The walls and




                                A
concrete are exposed concrete and appears to be used as mechanical, utility and
workshop space.




                              R
Recommended Measures
Good – Upgrade all finishes such as carpeting and wood
paneling.




               D
Better – Replacement of the plumbing fixtures and cabinetry
in the kitchen and restrooms. Renovation of the Marshals
office work areas to comply with current law enforcement
office standards.

Best – Complete renovation of the building to better
accommodate the Marshals office and dormitory functions.


Site Access and Overall Accessibility
Because the building is built into a steep hill, the building does not have an accessible
path from a parking area. The east entrance would be the best opportunity to provide
an accessible entrance as the transition from grade to the main floor is via only one step.
The main entrance to the building cannot be made accessible without a new access
point from the east parking area.
Accessibility within the building is not conforming to the current accessibility standard.
The first-level restrooms are residential in nature and do not have any of the required
grab bars. The restrooms are generally spacious and likely provide the required turning
radiuses and clearances.

Other basic accessibility provisions such as hall width and door hardware are
completely missing. The building does not have an elevator or wheelchair lift to
provide an accessible path between floors.

Recommended Measures
Good – Change door hardware to lever style hardware.




                                                          T
Better – Remove the east deck and replace with an accessible ramp and guardrail.




                                                        F
Best – Renovate the restrooms to commercial quality single-occupant restrooms with all
accessible features.




                              R A
               D
   ALTA CENTRAL (TOWN MARSHALL’S BUILDING) – Structural Assessment


   The building structure is a two-level wood framed structure with partial basement. The building
   was originally built as a barracks building at Fort Douglas but was then moved to Alta in the
   1950’s. The original date of construction is unknown. Access to the roof structure was not possible
   but it is assumed to be wood framed, either carpenter trussed, or rafter framed. The floor framing
   was observed to be 1x8 straight floor sheathing with 1-5/8” x 9” wood joists spaced at 16” on
   center bearing on interior and exterior 2x4 framed walls. The foundation is a unique combination
   of stone rubble with concrete facing. See Photo #1.




                                                     T
   As a general assessment the structure appears in adequate condition, but due to the type and age of
   construction there are concerns as noted below.




                                                    F
   The floor framing was evaluated, and the results indicate that the floors can support a live load of
   approximately 55 PSF. Current IBC live loading for residential is 40 PSF and office is 50 PSF.




                                                  A
   Thus, the existing framing is adequate in supporting current code loading for the existing space
   uses.




                   R
   Due to the age and type of construction, it is apparent that the structure does not meet current code
   and is inadequate in withstanding any significant lateral loads such as seismic and wind loading.
   Seismic design criteria had not been actively developed in the 1950’s and were not included in




                  D
   many codes at that time. Floor framing above the basement (1st floor) rests on the rubble/concrete
   foundation with no positive anchorage to the foundation. See Photo #2. This deficiency in
   anchorage between framing and foundation has historically led to failure during a significant
   seismic event. The failure occurs when the framing separates from the from the wall and collapses.
   This would also be the case when exposed to lateral loads from a significant avalanche.

   The above deficiency can be remedied as follows:
      1. Drill and epoxy treaded rods into the existing foundation.
      2. Place Simpson (or similar) straps nailed or bolted to the existing floor framing, attached to
          the newly placed drill and epoxy anchors.
      3. At parallel framing to wall locations, add blocking between the existing framing and apply
          the same straps and anchors as with the perpendicular framing.
      4. The anchorage of framing is typically spaced and 4’-0” on center around the perimeter of
          structure.

   No analysis was performed on the roof structure due to the inaccessibility of the framing, but it is
   assumed that the wood framing is grossly inadequate in supporting current code snow loading
   because it was constructed for the Salt Lake Valley location with much lower snow loading
   potential. The current code roof snow load at the site is approximately 200 PSF where the Salt
   Lake Valley location is 30 PSF. What also exacerbates the problem is the low pitch of roof that




1805 South Redwood Road, Suite 102, Salt Lake City, Utah        84104    T 801-466-1699      F 801-467-2495
tends to hold snow rather than shed snow. It is assumed that the only reason the building has not
had some failure during heavy snow is that the Town of Alta regularly shovels snow from the roof.

It is possible to strengthen the existing roof structure upon further investigation. This will require
removing existing ceilings and sistering new rafters and possibly adding new ridge and hip beams.
However, a more definitive upgrade cannot be determined until the framing is exposed for
observation and further analysis.

Another major concern is the exposure to avalanche loading. This building sits directly adjacent to
the Town Hall Building which had an avalanche hazard study prepared for the site. The report
showed that the site may experience significant avalanche loading. Wood framed structures
typically do not have the strength nor stiffness to resist these types of dynamic forces.

The building currently serves as an emergency response center for police and rescue. These types




                                                    T
of facilities are considered Risk Category IV as defined in the 2021 IBC, whereas typical buildings
are Risk Category II. Risk Category IV buildings must be designed to a more stringent structural




                                                   F
standard so that the building’s use remains functional during a major event such as a significant
earthquake or avalanche. As noted above, this subject building does not meet the current code and
is deficient in many ways.




                                                 A
For the above reasons it is recommended that the Town of Alta either relocate the Marshall’s
Office operations to a newer building or construct a new center that meets the more stringent




                 R
structural design standards associated with Risk Category IV buildings.

It is understood that there may be some immeasurable attributes to the building, such as its unique




                D
historic nature and the public’s desire to preserve such treasures of our past. If this is the case it is
recommended that in lieu of demolition, the building be repurposed for non-essential use.
Understanding that the roof and back walls will require periodic snow removal unless
strengthening of the roof occurs. Also, there remains a significant risk of structural damage if
exposed to a seismic or avalanche event if a major upgrade is not implemented.

Recommendations for strengthening the structure for non-essential use are noted above. However,
upgrading the structure to meet standards for Risk Category IV use would require major
restructuring of the roof, strengthening of walls and foundations which is costly and most likely
economically unfeasible.

Conclusion - The Town Marshall’s Building is currently in adequate condition but has serious
deficiencies that risk long-term use. A wood framed structure of this type and age is inadequate
to support the type of snow and avalanche loading associated with Alta and is not appropriate
for use as an emergency response Risk Category IV building.

If the above building is re-purposed for non-essential future use, many upgrades as noted above
are recommended. However, there remains the significant risk of structural damage if the
building is exposed to a considerable seismic or avalanche event. Upgrading the structure to
adequately resist these events, especially avalanches, may be economically unfeasible.
MECHANICAL and Plumbing ASSESSMENT
Project: Town of Alta Master Plan – Marshal’s Offices
October 2024
Principal Engineer: Vinnie Figlioli, PE

Marshal’s Offices – Assessment

Mechanical and Plumbing Overview




                                             T
The building is a two story wood framed building that was transported to the current
location in the 1950’s. The building is conditioned by two natural gas furnaces. One




                                            F
furnace for each level. The main floor furnace is located in the basement and the
second floor furnace is located in a closet on the second floor. The building envelope
is insufficient and causing a great deal of heat loss.




                                          A
The over all plumbing system of the building has had several modifications to it over
the years and therefore has a variety of material types. The water heater is located




                R
within the basement and was replaced in 2020. There is a mixture of plumbing fixtures
within the building.




               D
No fire suppression system was found within the building.

Mechanical Assessment

The mechanical system although adequate it is not up to code or in the best of
condition. The generator ventilation system is newer and seems to be in good working
order.

Main Floor

The first floor furnace was replaced in 2006. It has a humidifier attached to it and is
80% efficient. The combustion air for this furnace is brought into the building using a
flex duct through the generator room. This is not an ideal location. There is not fresh
air being brought into the system.

The ducting for this system is mostly from the 1950’s and is constructed with great
craftmanship. Many modifications have been made to the ducting to accommodate the
newer furnace and humidifier.




                                                                              Page 1 of 6
Kitchen exhaust fan is directly above the kitchen window and is against code. All
exhaust vents need to be 3 feet above or 10 feet away from any operable window or
intake.

Second Floor

The second floor is conditioned using a downflow furnace located in a closet on the
second floor. This furnace was replaced in 2009 and is 90% efficient. All the ducting is
conceal so no visual inspection was possible.




                                               T
Plumbing Assessment

The plumbing system has been modified several times and therefore there are multiply




                                              F
types of materials that have been used. These materials consist of galvanized, copper,
and pex piping for the domestic water and cast iron, galvanized and copper piping for




                                            A
the waste piping. The main domestic water line coming into the building is not
supported and has the potential of causing issues with the main shut off valve.




                R
The water heater was replaced in 2020 and seems to be in good working condition.
The main gas line to the water heater has a flex line that is too long and will need to be
replaced.




               D
The water softener appears to be operational.

The PRV is operational and no visual leaks were observed.

The main plumbing vents through the roof are broken or bent. These will need to be
repaired or replaced.

Fire Suppression Assessment

No fire suppression system within the building. It is assumed that this was not required
at the time of the original construction.

Equipment Information

                              ASHRAELife
Equipment         Age (yrs) Expectancy (yrs) Size
1st Floor Furnace          18                18 135,000 BTUH
2nd Floor Furnace          15                18 97,000 BTUH
Water Heater (NG)           4          12 to 15 42,000 BTUH




                                                                                Page 2 of 6
Recommendations and Priorities:

                                           Recommendations and Priorities
All recommended upgrades are prioritized from 1-3 where:
            Highly recommended upgrades (code violation, life safety, outdated systems, poor conditions, or similar)
       1)
              Recommended upgrades (border line code violation, upgrades that provide additional comfort or value, or similar)
     2)

     3)       Optional upgrades (owner desired)
   Area          Systems                     Recommendation                                                            Priority
                                Upgrade windows, doors, and add insulation.




                                                               T
                               Once complete perform heat loss calculations or
     All          Envelope                                                                                                2
                                  energy calculations to size new furnaces
                                                 properly.




 Main Level      Fire Place




                                                            A F
                                       Clean and inspect chimney liner.                                                   2




                     DR         Replace existing furnace and bring in fresh air.
 Basement       Mechanical      Upgrade to a 90% or greater furnace. Eliminate                                            1
                                          the combustion air duct.




                                                                                                                Page 3 of 6
 Basement      Mechanical                    Replace humidifier                           1




                              Clean and inspect all existing ducting and grilles.
 Main Level    Mech Ducting                                                               3




                                                               T
                                   Some grilled will need to be secured




                                                            A F
 Mian Level      Exhaust          Remove or replace kitchen exhaust fan.                  1




Second Floor




Second Floor       DR
               Mechanical




               Mech Ducting
                               Replace existing furnace and bring in fresh air.




                              Clean and inspect all existing ducting and grilles.
                                 Some ducting and grilles may need to be
                                           replaced or resecured.
                                                                                          1




                                                                                          3

                                Addition of a Building Automation System for
    All        Mechanical                                                                 3
                                         remote access and control




                              Secure main water line to the wall. Adjust piping
    All         Plumbing                                                                  1
                               as needed. Piping to be type A pex or copper.




                                                                                    Page 4 of 6
                              Secure main water line to the wall. Adjust piping
  All         Plumbing                                                                     1
                               as needed. Piping to be type A pex or copper.




                                                                T
                               Repipe the natural gas line going to the water
Basement      Plumbing          heater and provide a seismic strap securing                1




                                                               F
                                              water heater.




  All




                  R
              Plumbing




                                                             A
                                Repipe the domestic water system to all one
                                   material type. Type A pex or copper.
                                                                                           2




  All


                 D
              Plumbing
                                 Repipe the waste water system to all one
                                     material type. Cast iron or PVC
                                                                                           3




  Roof        Plumbing        Repair or replace plumbing vents through roof.               1




  All         Plumbing                  Upgrade plumbing fixtures.                         3
                              Explore the possibility of adding a fire suppression
  All      Fire suppression                                                                2
                                                    system.




                                                                                     Page 5 of 6
Summary

The current mechanical and plumbing systems within the building have reached or
exceeded their life expectancy. It is recommended to replace or upgrade the systems
to meet or exceed current energy, mechanical, and plumbing codes. These systems
can be upgraded as detailed above or they could be completely replaced. A financial
analysis will need to be performed to determine the best course of action.




                                                    T
Thank you for choosing Spectrum Engineers to provide this assessment. If you have
any questions or would like further information, please do not hesitate to contact me




                                                   F
directly.




                                                 A
Sincerely,




                   R
By:

      Vinnie Figlioli, P.E. Principal Mechanical Engineer




                  D
                                                                              Page 6 of 6
                                                                                   Town of Alta Facilities – Marshall Building
                                                                                               Electrical Assessment Report


Town of Alta Facilities – Marshall Building
Electrical Assessment Report
October 29th, 2024


1. Electrical Service and Power

   a. Electrical service is provided by Rocky Mountain Power (RMP).
   b. We have made the following assumption about the Marshall Building electrical service: The
      building is fed from a nearby pole mounted, single-phase tub transformer (Exhibit 1) and
      Office Building meter/disconnect (Exhibit 2). This assumption to be confirmed by the Owner.




                                                                  T
   c.   The meter (meter # 50 823 601) and main service disconnect are located outside the Office
        Building. The as-built drawings indicate the service disconnect size to be 200A, but we have




                                                                 F
        observed a 150A (120/240V, 1ph, 3w) breaker during the site visit.




                    R                                          A
                   D
         Exhibit 1 – Utility transformer (assumed) for Town Office and   Exhibit 2 – Town Office and Marshall Building electrical service
                      Marshall Building electrical service                               meter and service disconnect




           Exhibit 3 – Town Office and Marshall Building electrical      Exhibit 4 – Town Office and Marshall Building electrical service
                                service meter                                           main service disconnect – 150A

   d. The capacity of the existing electrical service has been verified by using the peak demand data
      from the RMP power bills from July 2023 to August 2024. Since the power factor information has
                                                              Town of Alta Facilities – Marshall Building
                                                                          Electrical Assessment Report

     not been provided, we have assumed the power factor to be 0.9. The existing service has 32%
     spare capacity. The service appears to be adequate for the current electrical loads. If major
     renovations, additions, or large loads (such as elevator and similar loads) are planned in the
     future, the service size should be checked again at that time and the transformer size should be
     coordinated with RMP.




                                                 FT
               R                               A
              D
e. The building disconnect was not observed during the site visit. It appears that the only way to
   disconnect power to the Marshall Building is at the Office Building main service disconnect. This
   should be confirmed by the Owner. Although remote disconnect location is permitted by the NEC
   code (For installations under single management, where documented safe switching procedures
   are established and maintained for disconnection, and where the installation is monitored by
   qualified individuals), our recommendation is to provide separate, dedicated service disconnect
   that can disconnect the power for the Marshal Building only.
f.   The main panelboard is located at the upper level, and it feeds a subpanel located in the furnace
     room. Both panels are outdated, past their useful life, and should be replaced. There is a third
     panelboard located in the generator room. This panelboard is in good conditions and can be
     reused.
g. The building is backed up by the diesel generator located at the lower level. This generator also
   feeds the Office Building. The generator (41kVA) is adequate for the current demand. If major


                                                                                              PAGE 2
                                                                 Town of Alta Facilities – Marshall Building
                                                                             Electrical Assessment Report

     renovations, additions, or large loads (such as elevator and similar loads) are planned in the
     future, the generator size should be checked again at that time.




                                                     T
                   Exhibit 5 – Main panelboard                Exhibit 6 – Subpanel located in the furnace room




                                                  A F
i.
               DR Exhibit 7 – Standby generator                      Exhibit 8 – Generator nameplate

h. Grounding and bonding systems, including grounding electrodes and bonding jumpers, were not
   completely accessible or visible during the site observations. The only observed grounding
   electrode was water pipe. These portions of the electrical system are critical to safety and power
   quality of the system. Further investigation should be done to confirm the existence, resistance
   readings and condition of the grounding and bonding systems. A licensed electrician will be
   required to safely open and check these systems.
     The outlets in the kitchen and laundry room are not GFCI protected as required by NEC 210.8(B).
j.   The life expectancy of electrical wiring is between 50 and 70 years. It is unknown if the building
     wiring is original to the building. The existing wiring devices appear to be in poor condition. The
     existing wiring and wiring devices should be replaced if remodels or upgrades are considered in
     the future.
k.   There are abandoned conduits, wiring, and equipment throughout the building. The abandoned
     equipment and wiring can lead to confusion, clutter, and safety hazards/violations with NEC.
     These items should be removed from the building.
l.   There were no visible surge suppression devices installed at this building. It is recommended to
     install surge suppression devices on the main service panel and at the selected panelboards that

                                                                                                       PAGE 3
                                                                         Town of Alta Facilities – Marshall Building
                                                                                     Electrical Assessment Report

        serve sensitive loads or expensive equipment.




                                                                     T
            Exhibit 9 – Existing wiring devices and surface raceway              Exhibit 10 – Laundry outlet




                                                                    F
2. Lighting System

   a. Most of the building has florescent lights. The existing light sources are outdated and inefficient.




                                                                  A
      All existing light fixtures and bulbs are recommended to be replaced with new LED lighting. Each
      space will need to be evaluated individually to determine the extent of the upgrade needed.
   b. The egress lighting is provided using emergency bug-eyes. We were not able to field verify the




                    R
      egress light levels (1 fc average, and 0.1 fc minimum). If the lighting upgrade is considered in the
      future, the egress lighting should be completely upgraded at that time.




   c.
                   D
                 Exhibit 11 – Fluorescent surface light fixture

        Existing lighting controls consist solely of toggle switches.
                                                                      Exhibit 12 –Emergency bug eye and toggle switch



   d. Significant upgrades to the interior and exterior lighting control systems are needed to meet the
      latest energy codes. There are opportunities for energy savings by installing lighting controls such
      as occupancy sensors and timed relay controls.

3. Fire Alarm System

   a. There is no fire alarm system in the building.


                                                                                                               PAGE 4
                                                                     Town of Alta Facilities – Marshall Building
                                                                                 Electrical Assessment Report

   b. The common areas and sleeping rooms are provided with the standalone smoke detectors.

4. Telecommunication System

   a. The telecommunication equipment is located at the lower level and in one of the offices at the
      upper level (equipment rack with the radio equipment, etc.).
   b. A dedicated A/C system and telecommunication ground bus bars were not observed at these
      locations.
   c.   Abandoned data and telephone wiring is scattered throughout the building.




                                                                 FT
                   R                                           A
                Exhibit 13 – Lower-level telecom equipment          Exhibit 14 – Upper-level telecom equipment


5. Security Systems




                  D
   a. Currently, there is no security system in the building. The installation of the Verkada Security
      Camera system is in process.

6. Audio/Video

   a. Satellite Cable TV distribution system consists of coax cables run on the outside of the building,
      punched through external walls, and floors to TVs through the building. Some sleeping rooms do
      not have distribution.




               Exhibit 15 – Coax cable punched through floor    Exhibit 16 – Living quarters w/o Satellite Distribution

                                                                                                              PAGE 5
                                                             Town of Alta Facilities – Marshall Building
                                                                         Electrical Assessment Report




             Exhibit 17 – External Coax cable routing       Exhibit 18 – Cable Distribution in basement.




                                                           T
b. Commons Area Display system consists of small 32” TV, a DVD Player, and Cable TV
   connection. While this may be adequate, it is small for current home and hospitality standards.




                                                        A F
             DRExhibit 19 – Commons Area Display




                                                                                                    PAGE 6
                                                                  Town of Alta Facilities – Marshall Building
                                                                              Electrical Assessment Report

Recommendations
The following table summarizes the list of the recommended upgraded. All recommended upgrades are
prioritized from 1 to 3, where:

        1  Highly recommended upgrades (code violations, life safety, fire hazards, outdated systems,
            poor conditions, and similar)
        2  Recommended upgrades (border line code violations, upgrades that provide additional
            comfort and flexibility, technology upgrades)
        3  Optional upgrades (owner desired upgrades)

 System                          Recommended Upgrade                                                 Priority

 General                         • Remove all abandoned conduits, wiring, devices, and                   1




                                                     T
                                   equipment.

 Electrical distribution         • Provide additional field investigation as required to                 1




                                                    F
                                   identify and document exact connections between the
                                   building electrical service and the generator in the
                                   Marshall Building.




                                                  A
                                 • Provide main service disconnect outside the building.

 Surge protection                • Provide surge protection at the main panel.                           1




                      R
 Electrical equipment            • Replace existing panelboards.                                         1




                     D
 Electrical wiring and devices   • Replace existing electrical wiring and devices.                       1

 Grounding and bonding           • Hire a licensed electrician to confirm the existence,                 1
                                   provide resistance readings, and review the conditions of
                                   the grounding and bonding systems.

 GFCI outlets                    • Replace non-GFCI outlets with GFCI outlets in all                     1
                                   locations specified in NEC 210.8 (B).

 Lighting                        • Replace all lights with the outdated light sources                    1
                                   (fluorescent and incandescent) with new LED lights.
                                 • Provide required egress lighting.

 Lighting controls               • Provide new lighting controls for interior and exterior               1
                                   lighting as needed to comply with the latest adopted
                                   energy codes.

 Telecommunication system        • Provide dedicated telecom room with proper cooling and                2
                                   grounding for all telecom racks and equipment.

 Security system                 • As recommended by the Owner.                                          1




                                                                                                  PAGE 7
                                                      Town of Alta Facilities – Marshall Building
                                                                  Electrical Assessment Report


Audio/Video System 1   • Replace Current Satellite TV System with an IP based                2
                         system with Wired Data jacks at each device location to
                         reduce bandwidth strain on Wireless Networks.
                       • Remove Satellite Receiver from roof.

Audio/Video System 2   • Update Commons Display to larger smart TV (65”). Add                2
                         Blu-Ray Player, and Data connections.




                                         FT
               R                       A
              D
                                                                                      PAGE 8
Town of Alta
Facility Master Plan
Building Assessment:
Community Center


             FT
      R    A
     D
Community Center

Originally an equipment storage garage
Second floor residential and community room addition
Post office addition

Visible Foundation System
Painted and plastered CMU
North wall is exposed to and damaged from rockfall
from hill
        Stabilization ties are corroded and completely
ineffective




                                                         F T
Recommended Measures
Good – Repair damaged CMU




                  A
Better –Reinstall rockfall protection measures




                R
Best –No recommendations

Building Envelope and Exterior Finish Materials




               D
Painted CMU
Painted vertical T111 type wood composite siding
Post office and stair to community room addition is separating
from the building and creating gaps in the building envelope
Residential side of second floor addition also exhibiting
separation from original structure

Recommended Measures
Good – No recommendations.

Better – Reattach post office addition

Best – Remove and rebuild post office and second floor
additions.

Exterior Window and Door Openings
Dark Bronze anodized aluminum fixed and sliding windows
   - Appear to be triple glazed
Exterior man doors
Overhead garage doors are insulated
No building insulation in main garage

Recommended Measures
Good –

Better –

Best –

Roofing




                                                           T
Accessed from ladder w/ outdated safety cage on west elevation
Flat with slope from south to north




                                                         F
   - TPO in fair condition
   - Slope & drainage contribute to damage on north wall




                  A
   - Damaged and ineffective rain gutter on north wall
Homemade snow fence on east edge to protect Post Office entrance
   - Ballasted with sandbags




                R
   - Poor penetration details
Rope “safety” cable from access stair to homemade snow fence




               D
   - Dangerous condition

Recommended Measures
Good – Remove safety cage and install a ladder with fall arrest gear. Remove rope
“safety line”. Install roof anchor bollards and wire rope for safety. Install new rain
gutter to control drainage.

Better – Remove homemade snow fence and replace with engineered solution with
proper penetration detailing.

Best –No recommendations.

Interior Features and Finishes
Very dated interior finishes
Automatic stair restricts navigating the east stair to
the Community Room
Storage room inaccessible due to stair handrail
Residence is cramped
Restroom on second level has separation between floor and wall
Ineffective mix of uses



Recommended Measures
Good –

Better –

Best –




                                                        T
Site Access and Overall Accessibility

Compromised accessibility to Community Room




                                                      F
Handrails not conforming to current accessibility standards.
Door hardware not conforming to current accessibility standards.




                 A
Recommended Measures
Good – Install new lever style door hardware. Install new handrails at stair that




               R
conforms to current accessibility standards.




              D
Better –No recommendations.

Best – No recommendations.
   COMMUNITY CENTER BUILDING – Structural Assessment

   The building is a two-level structure composed of twelve-inch-thick concrete masonry unit (CMU)
   exterior bearing walls with 32-inch-deep precast concrete double tee framing at the upper floor
   and wood timber and rafter framing at the roof. The double tee floor system clear spans the
   building above the garage area. 6-3/4” by 21-1/2” glue lam roof beams also clear span the building
   and are spaced at 48 inches on center. It is unknown what size rafter framing occurs between the
   glue lam beams and what type of sheathing is used. The age of structure is estimated between
   1978 to 1984.

   A wood framed stair structure to the west and a wood framed structure for stairs and post office at
   the east were added to the building at some point in time.




                                                     T
   As a general assessment, the structure appears in functional condition but shows signs of
   deterioration and damage in areas as noted below.




                                                    F
   The back and side walls of the building are constructed adjacent to a steeply sloped hillside and
   have been impacted by falling rock and accumulated snow. This condition has led to damage and




                                                  A
   deterioration of the CMU wall. See Photo #3. Efforts had been made to retain the hillside by
   means of metal fencing, but it has failed. The walls have been compromised due to impact from
   the rock and excessive moisture accumulating next to the walls. This is evident by signs of




                   R
   moisture deteriorating the mortar in joints and penetrating through the wall into the interior spaces
   at the lower level. See Photo #4.




                  D
   Correcting the above problem for long term use can be accomplished but will be a major
   undertaking that will require the following:
      1. Stabilizing the hillside by placement of a shotcrete facing anchored into the hillside or
          placement of a more resilient fencing structure.
      2. Repairing and re-pointing the CMU walls then place a waterproofing layer on the back and
          side walls.
      3. Install a positive drainage system at the base of the back and side walls.

   Another concern is the roof framing. An analysis of the roof beams indicates that the beams are
   only capable of supporting a snow load of 120 PSF while current code snow loading for the site is
   estimated at 204 PSF. If continued use of the building is anticipated, shoveling the accumulated
   snow during heavy snow years is needed. If the accumulated snow depth on roof exceeds
   approximately six feet in depth of compacted snow, snow removal will be required.

   In lieu of shoveling, another option is to strengthen the existing roof beams by glueing and spiking
   new micro-lam beams to the side of each existing beam. Due to the lengths involved, erection and
   placement of this new framing may be difficult.




1805 South Redwood Road, Suite 102, Salt Lake City, Utah        84104    T 801-466-1699      F 801-467-2495
The wood framed additions on the east and west side are also a concern. It is suspect whether the
framing can support significant snow loading but due to the pitched roofs, snow accumulation
would be greatly reduced. The framing at base was observed to have been impacted by rock fall at
a few locations. See Photo #5. Also, due to the unique skewed vertical supports and the apparent
lack of anchorage to the main block building, these additions appear to be pulling away from the
main structure and show signs of differential settlement, such as the uneven floors at landings.

Addressing the above potential problems for long-term use will require some selective demolition
to observe the structure and further investigation. Possible corrections may include strengthening
the roof framing and upgrading the anchorage of the wood framing to the main building’s CMU
walls.

Due to the age and type of construction, it is assumed that the structure does not meet current IBC




                                                  T
provisions for seismic and wind loading. The heavy mass concrete floor with minimal connections
to the CMU walls combined with the large open doors (no shear wall), at the front of building




                                                 F
creates weak link for resisting lateral loads during a seismic event. The capacity of the structure to
resist significant avalanche loading is also questionable.




                                               A
Corrections can be made to laterally strengthen the building as follows:
   1. Provide better anchorage between double tee framing and CMU walls by placing new drill
       and epoxy bolts and steel angles at each stem of the double tee around the perimeter of




                R
       main structure.
   2. Analyze the shear strength of CMU walls and strengthen if needed by either adding new
       FRP coatings to wall or placing a thin shotcrete layer to the walls at isolated locations.




               D
   3. Laterally strengthen the front of building by placing a reinforced concrete frame at the
       openings, attached to the existing CMU wall. Another more cost-effective approach is
       infilling one of the openings or reducing the actual size of opening by placing new
       reinforced masonry wall.

Conclusion - The Community Center Building currently is in functional condition but shows
signs of deterioration and damage due to rock fall from the hillside and water infiltration. The
wood framed additions also show signs of distress. Basic repair and upgrade recommendations
have been noted for future long-term use of this facility. The priority is correcting problems
with the hillside retention and water that will increase with time and jeopardize the structural
integrity of the CMU walls if not corrected. The cost of upgrading the overall structure to resist
lateral loads from a significant earthquake or avalanche event may be costly.
MECHANICAL and Plumbing ASSESSMENT
Project: Town of Alta Master Plan – Community Center
October 2024
Principal Engineer: Vinnie Figlioli, PE

Community Center – Assessment

Mechanical and Plumbing Overview




                                              T
The building is a two story wood and block framed building that consists of a garage
area and a post office on the main level and a community area on the second floor with




                                             F
one small apartment. The garage is conditioned using radiant tube heaters and also
includes two vehicle exhaust systems. The top floor of the building is conditioned by
two natural gas furnaces. There are also electric baseboard heaters that are located




                                           A
along the perimeter areas of the second floor. The post office is conditioned with
electric baseboard heaters. The building envelope is insufficient and causing a great




                R
deal of heat loss.

The overall plumbing system of the building seems to be in good working order. There




               D
is a tankless water heater located within a closet on the second level that was installed
in 2011. There is also a water softener.

No fire suppression system was found within the building.

Mechanical Assessment

The mechanical system, although adequate, is aged. This includes the systems for the
garage and the community area on the second floor.

Garage Area

The age of the radiant tube heaters is unknown. However, they are in working
condition. It is assumed that these units are past their life expectancy and will need to
be replaced.

The vehicle exhaust system is divided into two areas. The first is for the main area and
the second is for the area where UDOT parks the plow trucks. Both systems are aged
and need to either be serviced or replaced.




                                                                                Page 1 of 6
Second Floor

The second floor is conditioned using two natural gas furnaces located in a closet on
the second floor. These furnaces was replaced in 2010 and are 90% efficient. Each
furnace is equipped with a Humidifier. It does not appear to have any fresh air ducted
to the units. All the ducting is in good condition and provides proper distribution to the
space.

There are seven (7) electric baseboard heaters located along the perimeter of the
space by the windows. These are all in working order, but the age is unknown. It is




                                               T
assumed that these units are as old as the building.




                                              F
Post Office

There are three (3) electric baseboard heaters located within the space by the




                                            A
windows. These are all in working order, but the age is unknown. It is assumed that
these units are as old as the building.




                R
Plumbing Assessment

The plumbing system has is in good working condition. Most of the waste piping is




               D
exposed within the garage area and is of cast iron material. The domestic water piping
is copper and pex.

The water heater was replaced in 2011 and seems to be in good working condition. It
is a tankless type water heater that is not rated to be installed above 4500ft above sea
level. This unit should be replaced due to the age and the elevation rating.

The water softener appears to be operational.

The PRV is operational and no visual leaks were observed.

The main plumbing vents through the roof are broken or bent. These will need to be
repaired or replaced.

Fire Suppression Assessment

No fire suppression system within the building. It is assumed that this was not required
at the time of the original construction.




                                                                                 Page 2 of 6
Equipment Information

                                   ASHRAELife
Equipment              Age (yrs) Expectancy (yrs) Size
Furnace One                     14                18 80,000 BTUH
Furnace Two                     14                18 80,000 BTUH




                                              T
Radinat Tube Heaters Unknown                10 to 13 Unknown
Vehicle Exhaust System Unknown                    20 Unknown
Water Heater (NG)               13          12 to 15 172,000 BTUH




                                           A F
               DR
                                                                    Page 3 of 6
Recommendations and Priorities:

                                           Recommendations and Priorities
All recommended upgrades are prioritized from 1-3 where:
            Highly recommended upgrades (code violation, life safety, outdated systems, poor conditions, or similar)
       1)
              Recommended upgrades (border line code violation, upgrades that provide additional comfort or value, or similar)
     2)

     3)       Optional upgrades (owner desired)
   Area          Systems                     Recommendation                                                            Priority
                                Upgrade windows, doors, and add insulation.




                                                               T
                               Once complete perform heat loss calculations or
     All          Envelope                                                                                                2
                                  energy calculations to size new furnaces
                                                 properly.




                                                            A F
                                   Service or replace existing vehicle exhaust
   Garage       Mechanical        system. The hoses are worn and need to be                                               2




                      R
                                                   replaced.




   Garage



                     D
                Mechanical
                                   UDOTexhaust system. System should be
                                    serviced and checked to ensure proper
                                  containment and exhaust is achieved. The
                                current hood may not be capturing all the fumes
                                              from the vehicles.
                                                                                                                          2




                                 Radiant tube heaters need to be serviced and
   Garage       Mechanical                                                                                                1
                                              possibly replaced.




                                                                                                                Page 4 of 6
                                 Replace existing furnaces and humidifiers. Bring
Second Floor     Mechanical                                                                  1
                                                    in fresh air.




Second Floor    Mech Ducting     Clean and inspect all existing ducting and grilles.         3




                                                                  FT
                                    Electric base board heaters. These are in




                                                                A
Second Floor     Mechanical      working condition but may need to be replaced in            3
                                       the near future. The age is unknown.




                       R
                                    Addition of a Building Automation System for
    All          Mechanical                                                                  3




                      D
                                             remote access and control




                                   Replace existing tankless water heater with a
    All           Plumbing                                                                   1
                                     unit that is rated for the proper altitude.




   Roof           Plumbing        Repair or replace plumbing vents through roof.             1




    All           Plumbing                   Upgrade plumbing fixtures.                      3
                                Explore the possibility of adding a fire suppression
    All        Fire suppression                                                              2
                                                      system.



                                                                                       Page 5 of 6
Summary

The current mechanical systems within the building are very close to exceeding their
life expectancy. It is recommended to replace or upgrade the systems to meet or
exceed current energy, mechanical, and plumbing codes. These systems can be
upgraded as detailed above or they could be completely replaced. A financial analysis
will need to be performed to determine the best course of action.




                                                    T
Thank you for choosing Spectrum Engineers to provide this assessment. If you have
any questions or would like further information, please do not hesitate to contact me




                                                   F
directly.




                                                 A
Sincerely,




                   R
By:

      Vinnie Figlioli, P.E. Principal Mechanical Engineer




                  D
                                                                              Page 6 of 6
                                                                    Town of Alta Facilities – Community Center
                                                                                 Electrical Assessment Report


Town of Alta Facilities – Community Center
Electrical Assessment Report
October 29th, 2024


1. Electrical Service and Power

   a. Electrical service is provided by Rocky Mountain Power (RMP).
   b. We were not able to locate the utility transformer that feeds the Community Center.
   c.   There are two meters at the upper level: meter # 50 823 587 (service A) and meter # 50 823 586




                                                               T
        (service B). It appears that service A feeds the lower level (panelboard A is in the high bay area
        at the lower level) and service B feeds the upper level (panelboard B is located next to the meter).
        There is also a note on panelboard B (Exhibit 4) that panel “contains feeders for panel A.” An E01




                                                              F
        error (Exhibit 2) was displayed at the service A meter during the time of the site visit. This is
        typically an initialization error, meaning the meter has not been initialized. Also, we have only
        received the demand data for the service B meter. Considering all the above, we have assumed




                                                            A
        that the service B meter is active, the service A meter is inactive, and both panelboards (A
        and B), are fed from the service B. This assumption to be confirmed by the Owner.




                  DR
            Exhibit 1 – Service A and B meters and panelboard B   Exhibit 2 – Service A meter with error message E01




                        Exhibit 3 – Service B meter.               Exhibit 4 – Panelboard B note for panel A feeder
                                                            Town of Alta Facilities – Community Center
                                                                         Electrical Assessment Report

d. The main service disconnect is 200A, the service voltage is 240V, 1ph.
e. The capacity of the existing electrical service has been verified by using the peak demand data
   from the RMP power bills from July 2023 to August 2024. Since the power factor information has
   not been provided, we have assumed the power factor to be 0.9. The existing service has 67%
   spare capacity. The service appears to be adequate for the current electrical loads. If major
   renovations, additions, or large loads (such as elevator and similar loads) are planned in the
   future, the service size should be checked again at that time and the transformer size should be
   coordinated with RMP.




                                                FT
               R                              A
f.
              D
     Panelboard A shows signs of rusting and should be replaced if renovations or upgrades are
     considered. Panelboard B is in fair condition and has another 10-15 years of useful life.
g. Grounding and bonding systems, including grounding electrodes and bonding jumpers, were not
   completely accessible or visible during the site observations. The only observed grounding
   electrode was water pipe. These portions of the electrical system are critical to safety and power
   quality of the system. Further investigation should be done to confirm the existence, resistance
   readings and condition of the grounding and bonding systems. A licensed electrician will be
   required to safely open and check these systems.

                                                                                            PAGE 2
                                                                     Town of Alta Facilities – Community Center
                                                                                  Electrical Assessment Report




                         Exhibit 5 – Panelboard A.                           Exhibit 6 – Panelboard A interior




                                                                    T
   h. The wiring devices (light switches, receptacles, etc.) appear to be in fair conditions.
   i.   The outlets in the laundry closet are not GFCI protected as required by NEC 210.8(B).




                                                                   F
   j.   There were no visible surge suppression devices installed at this building. It is recommended to
        install surge suppression devices on the main service panel and at the selected panelboards that




                                                                 A
        serve sensitive loads or expensive equipment.

2. Lighting System




                   R
   a. Most of the building has florescent lights. The existing light sources are outdated and inefficient.
      All existing light fixtures and bulbs are recommended to be replaced with new LED lighting. Each
      space will need to be evaluated individually to determine the extent of the upgrade needed.




                  D
   b. The egress lighting is provided using emergency bug-eyes. We were not able to field verify the
      egress light levels (1 fc average, and 0.1 fc minimum). If the lighting upgrade is considered in the
      future, the egress lighting should be completely upgraded at that time.
   c.   Existing lighting controls consist solely of the toggle switches.
   d. Significant upgrades to the interior and exterior lighting control systems are needed to meet the
      latest energy codes. There are opportunities for energy savings by installing lighting controls such
      as occupancy sensors and timed relay controls.




                Exhibit 7 – Fluorescent troffers – upper level    Exhibit 8 – Fluorescent linear utility light – lower level

                                                                                                                  PAGE 3
                                                                  Town of Alta Facilities – Community Center
                                                                               Electrical Assessment Report




                         Exhibit 9 – Toggle switch                     Exhibit 10 – Emergency bug-eye




                                                               T
3. Fire Alarm System




                                                              F
   a. There is no fire alarm system in the building.

4. Telecommunication System




                                                            A
   a. The telecommunication demarcation equipment is located at the lower level in the high bay area.




                   R
   b. This environment is not suitable for telecom equipment, it’s not properly conditioned. The
      telecommunication ground bus bar was not observed at the demarc location.
   c.   A telecommunication pedestal is located in front of the building. The purpose of this pedestal is




                  D
        unknown.




            Exhibit 11 – Telecom backboard in the high-bay area         Exhibit 12 – Telecom pedestal


5. Security Systems

   a. There are no security systems in the building.

6. Audio/Video
   a. Exposed cables are present throughout the space.


                                                                                                        PAGE 4
                                                               Town of Alta Facilities – Community Center
                                                                            Electrical Assessment Report

b. The council chambers AV system consists of a wall mounted display, video conference bar, and
   connection cables connected to the back of the display.
     1) VC bar is inadequate for the space. Its current location limits the camera site lines for both
        council members, and public presenters, showing only profile views of presenters, and the
        council members.
     2) Requires the city manager to site next to the display to run the meeting.
     3) VC bar limits remote viewers to only see whomever is speaking the loudest.
c.   An old 4x3 projection screen hangs from the ceiling at the same location as the as the display.
d. There is no in-room voice lift system, limiting speaker to their own voices.




                                                            FT
                R
                   Exhibit 13 – Council chambers.




                                                          A  Exhibit 14 – Display, VC Bar, and projector screen.




               D
             Exhibit 15 - Exposed cables above doorway.          Exhibit 16 – Exposed cables below desks.




                                                                                                        PAGE 5
                                                                Town of Alta Facilities – Community Center
                                                                             Electrical Assessment Report

Recommendations
The following table summarizes the list of the recommended upgraded. All recommended upgrades are
prioritized from 1 to 3, where:

        1  Highly recommended upgrades (code violations, life safety, fire hazards, outdated systems,
            poor conditions, and similar)
        2  Recommended upgrades (border line code violations, upgrades that provide additional
            comfort and flexibility, technology upgrades)
        3  Optional upgrades (owner desired upgrades)

 System                          Recommended Upgrade                                              Priority

 General                         • Remove all abandoned conduits, wiring, devices, and                1




                                                     T
                                   equipment.

 Electrical distribution         • Provide main service disconnect outside the building.              1




                                                    F
 Surge protection                • Provide surge protection at the main panel.                        1




                                                  A
 Electrical equipment            • Replace existing panelboard A.                                     2

 Grounding and bonding           • Hire a licensed electrician to confirm the existence,              1




                      R
                                   provide resistance readings, and review the conditions of
                                   the grounding and bonding systems.

 GFCI outlets                    • Replace non-GFCI outlets with GFCI outlets in all                  1




                     D
                                   locations specified in NEC 210.8 (B).

 Lighting                        • Replace all lights with the outdated light sources                 1
                                   (fluorescent and incandescent) with new LED lights.
                                 • Provide required egress lighting.

 Lighting controls               • Provide new lighting controls for interior and exterior            1
                                   lighting as needed to comply with the latest adopted
                                   energy codes.

 Telecommunication system        • Provide dedicated telecom room with proper cooling and             2
                                   grounding for all telecom racks and equipment.

 Security system                 • As recommended by the Owner.                                       3

 Audio/Video system              • If accepted by the owner, we recommend the following:              2
                                 • Replacement of the presentation system with a new one
                                   consisting of dual screens, one for the public and one for
                                   council members to enhance viewing angles.
                                 • Two PTZ Cameras, one to show the Council Members,
                                   and one for the public presenters.


                                                                                                PAGE 6
                               Town of Alta Facilities – Community Center
                                            Electrical Assessment Report

• Remote Video input so manager does not need to sit
  beside the display.
• Overhead, or tabletop microphone to improve audio
  pickup.
• Overhead speakers to improve intelligibility for public
  attendees.




                   FT
 R               A
D
                                                               PAGE 7
Town of Alta
Facility Master Plan
Building Assessment:
Appendix


             FT
      R    A
     D
Structural Photos




                                          FT
                                        A
                Photo #1 – Stone Rubble & Concrete Foundation




            DR
                    Photo #2 – Floor Joists Resting on Foundation
                      FT
                    A
      Photo #3 – Damaged CMU Walls




DR
Photo #4 – Moisture Infiltration in CMU Walls
                         FT
 R                     A
D
Photo #5 – Rock Fall Damage to Framed Addition Base
Town Offices - Floor Plans                                                                                                                                     Department Legend
                                                                                                                                                                 3rd Party Office
                                                                                                                                                                 Administration
                                  RESTROOM     RESTROOM
                                                      110
                                                                                                                           JANITOR
                                     106
                                    43 SF            53 SF
                                                                                                                             203                                 Building Systems
                                                                                                                            21 SF

                                                                                                                                                                 Circulation
                                                                                                                                        RESTROOM
                         MECH /
                                                                STORAGE                           SKIS &    COPY &
                                                                                                                                               204               Support Spaces
                          ELEC                                                                               FILES
                                                                                                                                            46 SF
                                                                  105                             COATS
                          107
                                                                                                               205
                          68 SF
                                                                 135 SF                            206                                 RESTROOM
                                                                                                   56 SF     105 SF
                                                                                                                                           214
                                                                                                                                          36 SF
         UP    HALL                                                                STAIRS
                                                                                       DN
                108                                                                  207                    ASST.                       LOBBY        VESTIBULE
               128 SF                                 PLANS                         99 SF                  CLERK                          202           201
                                                                                                                           RECEPTION
                                                      ROOM                                                 OFFICE                        121 SF        58 SF
                                                                                    ASST.                                     212
                                                        104                                                 213
                                                                                ADMINISTRATOR                                217 SF
                                                       208 SF                                               61 SF
                                                                                   OFFICE
                                                                                      208
                                                                                     82 SF
                                                                   3RD
              CONFERENCE
                                  HALL                           PARTY
                   109                                                                                                                 MAYORS
                                   101                           OFFICE
                 261 SF
                                                                  (FOR                 TOWN                    TOWN                    OFFICE /
                                  159 SF     STORAGE                                   CLERK               ADMINISTRATOR                BREAK
                                               103
                                                                 RENT)
                                                                   102                 OFFICE                 OFFICE                    ROOM
                                              41 SF
                                                                  233 SF                    209                     210                  211
                                                                                        121 SF                    121 SF                230 SF




    LEVEL 1 FLOOR PLAN                                                         LEVEL 2 FLOOR PLAN
1   SCALE: 1/8" = 1'-0"
                                                                           2   SCALE: 1/8" = 1'-0"
Alta Central - Floor Plans




                                                                                                                            Department Legend
                                                                               CRAWL
                                STORAGE/MECHANICAL                             SPACE
                                        106                                     107
                                                                                                                              Building Systems
                                       61 SF                                   660 SF
                                                                                                                              Support Spaces
     TOOL
   STORAGE
       &                                             STORAGE/LAUNDRY                              MECHANICAL
                                                                                             UP
  WORKSHOP                                                 102                                        104
        101                                               232 SF                  UP                 114 SF
       207 SF                                                            UP
                                                                                                               ELECTRICAL
                                                                                                                   &
                                                                   Vestibule            UP                     GENERATOR
                                                                       103                                         105
                                                                     50 SF                                        92 SF



                                                                         UP                  UP


                LEVEL 0 FLOOR PLAN
   1            SCALE: 1/8" = 1'-0"
Alta Central - Floor Plans




                                                            RESTROOM
                                                 RESTROOM       &
                                                    113      STORAGE   STORAGE
                                                    77 SF       111      112
                                                               47 SF     2 SF




                               ON-CALL
                              DISPATCH                                          KITCHEN
                                                                                                                  Department Legend
                                 114                                              109
                                185 SF                                           127 SF
                                                                                                    LIVING          Building Systems
       HALLWAY                                                                                      ROOM
         110
                                                                                                     108            Circulation
                                                                                          DN        380 SF
        144 SF

                    EVIDENCE
                                                                                                                    Marshal
                                         DISPATCH           OFFICE      OFFICE
                    STORAGE
                       115
                                           116
                                          158 SF
                                                             117
                                                             81 SF
                                                                          118
                                                                         82 SF
                                                                                                                    Support Spaces
                      86 SF                                                                    UP




                                                                                                             DN


          LEVEL 1 FLOOR PLAN Copy 1
   1      SCALE: 1/8" = 1'-0"
Alta Central - Floor Plans




                                                       CLOSET               STORAGE
                                                         124                   122
                                                        5 SF                  3 SF




                      BEDROOM      BEDROOM   RESTROOM           RESTROOM        BEDROOM                       Department Legend
                          127        126        125                123               121
                         84 SF       84 SF     84 SF              67 SF              84 SF
                                                                                                                Building Systems
   HALLWAY
       120                                                                                                      Circulation
    175 SF
                                                                                             DN

                      BEDROOM      BEDROOM   BEDROOM
                                                                             LEAD
                                                                          DISPATCHER
                                                                                                  MARSHAL'S
                                                                                                  BEDROOM
                                                                                                                Marshal
                          128        129        130                        BEDROOM                   119
                         76 SF       82 SF     81 SF                          131                   355 SF      Support Spaces
                                                                            164 SF




             LEVEL 2 FLOOR PLAN
   1         SCALE: 1/8" = 1'-0"
Community Center - Floor Plans




                            MARSHAL
                            STORAGE                         Department Legend
                              103
                             46 SF
                                                                    Community Services
                                                                    Marshal
                                                                    Support Spaces
                                      MARSHAL     TOWN
                                      STORAGE    STORAGE
                                        101        102
                   SIGN                1060 SF    579 SF
                 STORAGE
                    104
                   143 SF                                                            MAILBOXES
                                                            POST                        AND
                                                           OFFICE                    COMMUNITY
                                                            105                       BOARDS
                                                           226 SF                        106
                                                                                         88 SF

          UP                                                            UP




    LEVEL 1 FLOOR PLAN
1   SCALE: 1/8" = 1'-0"
Community Center - Floor Plans



                                                                       MECHANICAL
                                                                           108
                                                                          34 SF
                            RESTROOM
                               112
                              54 SF                      STORAGE
                                                           109
                                                                                                ALTA
                                                                                               READING                     Department Legend
                                                                                                ROOM
                                                           44 SF
                            STORAGE                                                               121
                              119                                                                320 SF                      3rd Party Office
                              6 SF                        PUBLIC
                                                        RESTROOM
                                             ENTRY &
                                                           110
                                                                                                                             Building Systems
                                             LAUNDRY
                                                          42 SF
                                                  111
                                               92 SF
                                                                                                                             Community Services
                                                                                                 ALTA
                                     DN
                                                                                     TOWN     COMMUNITY    DN
                                                                                                                             Marshal
                                              LIVING                                COUNCIL   ENRICHMENT
                                              SPACE                                 CHAMBER     SPACE                        Support Spaces
                                                  113                                 107         120
                                               157 SF                                489 SF      242 SF
                                                                 REF



                   STORAGE                                                                                       STORAGE
                      117                 BEDROOM       BEDROOM                                                    118
                     43 SF                  114            115                                                    38 SF
                                            73 SF         72 SF
                              DN                                                                            DN




    LEVEL 2 FLOOR PLAN
1   SCALE: 1/8" = 1'-0"
