                MAYOR                                                                                                          TOWN OF ALTA
             ROGER BOURKE                                                                                                       P.O. BOX 8016
                                                                                                                              ALTA, UTAH 84092
            TOWN COUNCIL
            CAROLYN ANCTIL                                                                                                    TEL (801) 363-5105
              JOHN BYRNE                                                                                                        (801) 742-3522
             ELISE MORGAN                                                                                                     FAX (801)742-1006
             DAN SCHILLING                                                                                                         TTY 711




                                                            AGENDA
                                            ALTA PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING 3:00 PM
                                                  WEDNESDAY DECEMBER 18th, 2024
                                                     ALTA COMMUNITY CENTER
                                                           ALTA, UTAH

 We encourage you to join us in person. This will be a hybrid meeting. For information about how to view the
              meeting online, please visit https://townofalta.utah.gov/events/ or watch live
                                  https://townofalta.utah.gov/live-stream/

Public comment - please note, each person will be able to speak for up to 3 minutes at each public hearing.
Written public input can be submitted in advance to Chris Cawley via email (ccawley@townofalta.utah.gov)
                             To make a public comment virtually we recommend you notify
                     Molly Austin via email (molly@townofalta.utah.gov) in advance of the meeting.

                    Meeting Agenda
             1      Call the meeting to order
             2      Public comment
             3      Approval of minutes from the August 28, 2024 meeting
             4      Staff updates regarding new town website and email addresses
             5      Presentation and Discussion – Shrontz Estate Proposal for Patsey Marley Property
             6      Discussion and Possible Action Regarding a 2025 Calendar Year Meeting Schedule
             7      New Business
             8      Motion to adjourn

Notice Provisions:
     •    Motions relating to any of the foregoing including final action may be taken at the meeting.
     •    One or more members of the Alta Planning Commission may attend by electronic means, including telephonically. Such members may fully participate in
          the proceedings as if physically present. The anchor location for purposes of the electronic meeting is the ALTA COMMUNITY CENTER, 10361 EAST HWY
          210, ALTA, UTAH
     •    Reasonable accommodations (including auxiliary communicative aids and services) for individuals with disabilities may be prov ided upon receipt of a
          request with three (3) working days’ notice. For assistance, please call the Alta Town Office at 801 -363-5105
                                  MEETING MINUTES
                                  PUBLIC HEARING &
                        ALTA PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
                           Wednesday, August 28, 2024, 3:00 PM
                   Alta Community Center, 10351 E. Highway 210, Alta, Utah

PUBLIC HEARING – 3:00 PM

PRESENT:                Jon Nepstad, Chair (Virtual)
                        Jeff Niermeyer, Vice-Chair
                        Rob Voye (Virtual)
                        Dave Abraham (Joined at 3:02 - Virtual)
                        Maren Askins
                        Roger Bourke, Town of Alta Mayor (ex-officio)

STAFF PRESENT: Chris Cawley, Town Manager
               Molly Austin, Assistant Town Manager
               Polly McLean, Town Attorney (Virtual)
               Jen Clancy, Town Clerk (Virtual)

ALSO PRESENT:           John Guldner, Cottonwood Lands Advisory (Virtual)
                        Todd Godfrey, HGB Law (Virtual)

NOT PRESENT:


    1. CALL THE PUBLIC HEARING TO ORDER

Planning Commission Vice-Chair Jeff Niermeyer opened the August 28, 2024 Public Hearing at
3:00 PM. He introduced the topic by explaining that the provisions and amendments have been
put in place as a result of recent State of Utah Legislature mandates on municipalities to implement
some clarifications and standardizations for what is required for subdivision approvals. The
proposed amendments have been vetted by legal counsel to ensure compliance with state
requirements and best practices.

    2. PUBLIC HEARINGS TO RECEIVE PUBLIC COMMENT REGARDING
       PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO TOWN OF ALTA CODE SECTION 10-11-1
       SUBDIVISIONS

No public comments received.

    3. MOTION TO ADJOURN

Planning Commission member Maren Askins moved to adjourn the Public Hearing. Planning
Commission Chair Jon Nepstad seconded the motion, and the motion was carried with unanimous
consent of the commission.

Alta Planning Commission Meeting Minutes
August 28, 2024                                                                                   1
ALTA PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING – 3:05 PM

PRESENT:                Jon Nepstad, Chair (Virtual)
                        Jeff Niermeyer, Vice-Chair
                        Rob Voye (Virtual)
                        Dave Abraham (Virtual)
                        Maren Askins
                        Roger Bourke, Town of Alta Mayor (ex-officio)

STAFF PRESENT: Chris Cawley, Town Manager
               Molly Austin, Assistant Town Manager
               Polly McLean, Town Attorney (Virtual)
               Jen Clancy, Town Clerk (Virtual)

ALSO PRESENT:           John Guldner, Cottonwood Lands Advisory
                        Todd Godfrey, HGB Law (Virtual)

NOT PRESENT:


    1. INTRODUCTION AND WELCOME FROM THE CHAIR

Planning Commission Vice-Chair Jeff Niermeyer opened the August 28, 2024 meeting at 3:06
PM.

    2. PUBLIC COMMENT

No public comments received.

    3. APPROVAL OF MINUTES FROM THE May 22, 2024, MEETING

Maren Askins noted that her name was misspelled and asked that it be updated.

Chris Cawley stated that the first version of the minutes shared with the commission incorrectly
indicated that they would be approved by Chris Otto, but a new version has been posted on our
website with an updated signature block for Chris Cawley to approve the minutes. He went on to
explain that Chris Otto has moved away from his role with the Town of Alta as has started a new
job with Salt Lake County Parks and Recreation. Chris then shared that Molly Austin will be
taking over shortly as the new Assistant Town Manager. Due to this personnel change, Chris
Cawley will attest the approval of the May 22, 2024, minutes.

Jeff Niermeyer entertained a motion to approve the minutes from the May 22, 2024 meeting with
the two amendments described above. Planning commission Chair Jon Nepstad motioned to
approve the minutes as described. Planning Commission member Rob Voye seconded the
motion, and it was carried out with unanimous consent of the commission.

Alta Planning Commission Meeting Minutes
August 28, 2024                                                                                2
    4. DISCUSSION AND POSSIBLE ACTION TO APPROVE AN AMENDMENT TO
       THE TOWN OF ALTA CODE SECTION 10-11-1 SUBDIVISIONS

Jeff Niermeyer described that if a water system is going to be expanded by a certain size of more
than 500 feet of culinary pipeline, or by the addition of a water tank or a pump station, or other
major infrastructure, that approval is required from the state of Utah. Approval is granted via a
letter from the Utah Division of Drinking Water (DDW). Not every project will require it, but
certain classes of improvements for subdivisions may necessitate this level of approval. Jeff
opined that gaining approval from DDW can entail a laborious process and inquired about the
best point in the process to require it. He asked if Polly Mclean had a suggestion for the best
place to insert this in the ordinance.

Polly deferred to Todd Godfrey, who developed the draft ordinance. She continued to explain
that she has spoken with Chris about whether the Planning Commission wanted the requirement
to apply to all water systems in the Town of Alta or just ones which are public water systems.

Jeff Niermeyer explained that a public water system is defined as anything that serves more than
25 customers and is connected to a public water system. Because any water line feeding into a
subdivision is attached to the Town of Alta system, it would qualify as a public water system.

Polly offered the clarification that the Planning Commission is going to be making a
recommendation to the Town Council for the ordinance change (as opposed to approving it here
in this meeting) as only the Council can vote on ordinances.

Todd Godfrey recommended adding the following language requiring DDW approval to the end
of 10-11-4 Subsection 3(a): “The requirements of the state Division of Drinking Water must be
satisfied and Division approval, where required, shall be obtained by the applicant before a final
plat is approved.”

Jeff Niermeyer asked for any additional comments or suggestions before moving to vote on
forwarding the recommendations to the Town Council for their consideration and approval.

Chris Cawley apologized for not providing a memo for the commission summarizing all of the
changes contained in the amended ordinance, which Chris summarized as the following:

    •   The Planning Commission does preliminary plat approval
    •   The Planning Commission will hold a public hearing
    •   The Planning Commission will require a preliminary title report
    •   Town Staff does the final application approval with the updated title report

Polly inquired about the appeals process in the case that someone would want to appeal a
subdivision approval. Todd recommended that an internal appeals process be created and
strongly recommended that appeals go to a law-trained hearing officer. Polly observed that
currently the Alta Town Council is the land use decision appeal authority but described that State
statute does not allow for subdivision appeals to go before a local council. Todd agreed and
reinforced his recommendation that these cases do not go before the council but rather to a law-

Alta Planning Commission Meeting Minutes
August 28, 2024                                                                                      3
trained hearing officer. Jeff Niermeyer asked who the authority would be if it is not the Town
Council. Todd offered that many communities designate a law-trained hearing officer who is
independent of the City or Town. Chris Cawley asked for clarification that if the Town does not
have a specific appeal process designated for subdivision approvals, that appeals would go
directly to court, and Todd confirmed that is in fact the case.

Polly explained that if the Town of Alta wanted to have law-trained hearing officer, the process
would start with submitting a request for proposal for such services. Todd Godrey elaborated that
depending on the stringency of Town procurement processes, the Town of Alta could just hire
someone for that role based on prior knowledge or good references.

The commission agreed on the need to provide an appeals process specific to subdivision
approvals in section 10-5-1 of the Town of Alta’s land use ordinance.

Dave Abraham inquired about the fees and fee table mentioned in the document and if the fees
are defined. Chris Cawley confirmed it is listed in the fee schedule as $100 per application plus
$25 per lot.

Jeff Niermeyer asked if the Town of Alta had a set of standards on hand of what materials would
be required to bring to a subdivision pre-application meeting. John Guldner recommended we
defer to the requirements for a Land Use Application. Chris mentioned that the requirements
may vary based on the zoning district. Jeff noted that the Town may have to start preparing such
standards and can adopt the Association of Public Works “Orange Book” as a resource.

Jeff entertained a motion to forward the proposed revisions to Subdivision Code 10-11-1 with the
amendment to include at the end of section 3a requirement of the State Division of Drinking
water language (as provided by legal counsel) along with a recommendation to the council that
there be a separate section for an appeals process or subdivision approvals in section 10-5-10.

Dave Abraham noted some grammatical errors in the current version that should be revised.
Most notably consistency with capitalization of “Planning Commission” and the omission of a
distance qualifier (“feet”) following the text “500” at the bottom of page 6. Polly pointed out that
capitalization of “Town Manager” is also inconsistent.

Planning Commission Vice-Chair Jeff Niermeyer entertained a motion that the additional
amendments be forwarded to the Town Council for approval. Planning Commission Chair Jon
Nepstad motioned to approve with Planning Commission member Maren Askins seconding the
motion. The motion passed with unanimous consent of the commission.

    5. PRESENTATION: TOWN OF ALTA CULINARY WATER, WASTEWATER,
       AND FACILITIES MASTER PLANNING PROJECTS

Chris introduced that the Town of Alta is working on some exciting capital improvement
planning projects that are peripheral to the Planning Commission responsibilities.




Alta Planning Commission Meeting Minutes
August 28, 2024                                                                                     4
Chris described that the starting point for these projects was the Town Council retreat held in
January 2024. At that meeting, the Town recognized 4 primary strategic outcomes:

        1. Stabilize the Alta Marshals Office
        2. Capital Assets Master Planning
        3. Governance
        4. Long-Term Planning

Chris summarized that the Town has 3 primary categories of capital assets: buildings, utilities,
and equipment.

The 4 buildings outlined in the master plan are:
   • The Town of Alta Administrative Office
   • Alta Central
   • The Alta Community Center
   • The Tom Moore Historic Structure

Chris continued to detail that the primary project goals are to assess the condition of existing
facilities, facilitate decision making about upcoming investments in TOA buildings, and prepare
the Town to replace any buildings in the future if necessary. Next, Chris gave an overview of the
water and sewer systems, and a discussion ensued about history, significance, and status of these
systems. The project goals for the Water and Sewer Master Plan are to assess the existing
infrastructure, identify opportunities for improvements, and provide a detailed capital
improvement plan. Chris identified that the sewer system is of less concern than the capacity and
availability of the culinary water system, especially as it relates to fire flows. It was noted that
the Town has secured a vendor for the Water and Sewer Master Plan project and is in the final
stages of procurement for the Facilities Master Plan. Chris will continue to keep the Planning
Commission informed of the progress and developments of these projects.

Maren Askins inquired about the status of planning for a new community center. Chris described
that the Town was able to acquire some land (located in the North Flagstaff area between the
photohaus and the Tom Moore mine) from the federal government 11 years ago for such a
facility. A feasibility study was conducted to build a new community center on that site, but the
designs that resulted did not go over positively with the community, and the Town holds
concerns about the risk of avalanche exposure on that site. In addition, the costs of building on
that site would be substantial. The Town is curious to see the results of the current facilities
master planning project on options for the community center. John Guldner highlighted that a
previous study provided concepts of rebuilding the community center on its current footprint,
which were more realistic.

Rob Voye recollected that the Planning Commission was able to tour the Town’s drinking water
system roughly 11 years ago and expressed interest in doing so again as it would be beneficial to
the newer members of the commission. A further discussion ensued about some improvements to
the Bay City Mine since the last tour.




Alta Planning Commission Meeting Minutes
August 28, 2024                                                                                    5
    6. NEW BUSINESS

Chris brought attention to the staffing update mentioned previously in the meeting.

    7. DATE OF NEXT MEETING

The next meeting is scheduled for September 25, 2024, at 3:00 PM assuming there is business to
bring before the commission.

The following meeting is scheduled for October 23, 2024, and the commission discussed
conducting a walking tour of future Alta project sites or a tour of the Bay City Tunnel.

    8. MOTION TO ADJOURN

Planning Commission Chair Jon Nepstad moved to adjourn the meeting. Planning Commission
Member Rob Voye seconded the motion, and the motion was carried with unanimous consent of
the commission.



Minutes Approved on September 25, 2024


__________________________
Chris Cawley, Town Manager




Alta Planning Commission Meeting Minutes
August 28, 2024                                                                              6
Alta Planning Commission

Staff Report


To: Alta Planning Commission
From: Chris Cawley, Town Manager
Re: Shrontz Estate Proposal to 2014 Settlement Agreement to Rezone Portion of Patsy Marley
Parcel to FM-20 and Develop a Single Condominium Project Below the Albion Basin Summer
Road
Date: December 11, 2024
Attachments: Alta Patsey Marley Parcel presentation



Background

The Town of Alta and the owners of Patsey Marley Hill Property (the Property) have been in
discussion over development of the Property for many years. In 2009, the Estate of Joanne L.
Shrontz (the Estate) applied to the Town to subdivide the Property and develop single family
homes. The Town denied the application due to the lack of culinary water availability and lack of
access to the site. The Estate sued the Town, as well as Salt Lake City Corporation (SLC), and the
ensuing litigation was settled in 2014. The settlement agreement between the Town and the
Estate provided for development of 10 single-family homes of up to 8500 square feet each,
above grade, in compliance with the Town’s FR-1 Zone. SLC entered into a stipulation which
allocated 800 gallons per day of water for each of the 10 homes.

Alternatives to 10 Lot Subdivision on the Property

The Shrontz Family has considered numerous development concepts for the Property, including
several ideas for concentrating development on the land within the Property below the Albion
Basin Summer Road (ABSR). In more recent times, Estate representatives have discussed various
alternatives with Town Staff and presented two different concepts in Alta Town Council
meetings. In July 2021, the Estate presented a concept to the Council for a condo-hotel
development containing 48 hotel rooms, 34 condominiums, on-site parking, and various
amenities in a single structure. Click here to view the July 2021 Alta Town Council meeting
minutes. The estate proposed at the time to preserve land above the Albion Basin Summer Road
as open space. At the time, the Council indicated it did not support development of a condo-
hotel and that it found the building to be undesirably large or massive.

In March of 2023, the Estate presented another concept to the Council for a new zoning overlay
to permit development of condo-hotels. The Estate also presented an updated version of the
2021 concept with reduced height and mass that included 50 hotel rooms and 25 condos. The
Council indicated it still did not support including condominiums in a hotel project and that the
estate could pursue a rezone to the existing Town of Alta Base Facilities Zone, which permits
various commercial uses including traditional hotels. Click here to view the minutes of the April
2023 Council meeting.
Current Proposal

During the past year, the Estate began considering another concept for a concentrated
development on the Property below the ABSR using Town of Alta zoning district FM-20, which
allows multifamily residential development including condominiums through a conditional use
permit process (the Proposal). Town Staff has met with estate representatives to review
iterations of the concept and promote compliance with FM-20 and the 2014 settlement
agreement. The Proposal includes the following key elements:

    •   Subdivision of the Property into two lots, one of which is primarily concentrated below
        the ABSR and sized to include sufficient net developable acreage to allow the unit count
        proposed by the Estate.
    •   A large condominium building with up to 29 condominium units, 3 employee or
        “workforce” units, on-site parking, and access to the site using one of a handful of
        potential alternatives including the concept permitted by USFS to widen and pave the
        first several hundred feet of the ABSR.
    •   A conservation easement would be applied to all land within the Property above the
        ABSR, including portions of the development lot above the ABSR.

Staff has suggested to the Estate to match the mass of the above-grade portion of the building
to that of the ten, 8500 above grade square-foot homes provided for in the 2014 development
agreement. The Proposal is substantially larger than that, but of course, the Estate is free to
propose any development concept to the Town’s decision makers.

FR and FM Zoning Districts and Petition to Rezone Under Town of Alta Code

 ZONE              FR-1 Alta Code 10-6A                               FM-20 Alta Code 10-6C
                   To allow for uses compatible with the natural      To allow high density residential, limited commercial, resort
                   and scenic beauty of Alta. To increase the         dwellings occupied or owned for periods of less than 30 days,
                   period of ownership and occupancy of Alta's        to the extent that such development is compatible with the
 PURPOSE           residents.                                         protection of natural and scenic resources
                   Single family dwellings. Accessory uses and
 PERMITTED         structures customarily incidental to a permitted   Single family dwellings. Accessory uses and structures
 USES              use                                                customarily incidental to a permitted use
                                                                      Accessory/customarily incidental, apartment or lodging
                                                                      houses, hotels, condominium projects, liquor stores,
                   Recreation, employee quarters, office uses         recreation, dwelling groups, employee quarters, multiple
 CONDITIONAL       incidental to main use, public and quasi-public    family dwellings, offices incidental to main use, restaurant,
 USES              uses, temporary structures                         boutique, ski shop, etc., temp. structures
 PROHIBITED
 USES              Rentals under 30 days
 LOT AREA AND                                                         Minimum 1/2 acre, 100 feet min. width, subdivided lots not
 WIDTH             1 acre, 200 feet width                             less than one "net developable acre" in size
 YARD              Setbacks are individually determined by the        Setbacks are individually determined by the Planning
 REGULATIONS       Planning Commission                                Commission
 HEIGHT                                                               35' above lower of established or finished grade, height of
 REQUIREMENTS      35' above lower of established or finished grade   conditional uses determined by Planning Commission
 MAXIMUM LOT
 COVERAGE          25 percent of net developable acreage              25% of gross lot area

                                                        2
 DENSITY                                                       Up to 20 dwelling units or 40 guestrooms per net developable
 REGULATIONS                                                   acre and contained in not more than 2 buildings



10-6C-11 PETITIONS TO REZONE requires the following be submitted to the Town: name and
address of petitioner, statement of all interest in property, legal description of property,
statement of reasons and basis of Proposal, statement in detail of plans, statement of
availability of utility services, fees, Planning Commission review.

Under Utah Code Annotated 10-9a-501, the legislative body of a municipality may enact a land
use regulation including to create or amend a zoning district. Utah courts have supported broad
authority to create amend land use ordinances so long as it is “reasonably debatable” that the
decision to do so advances the purpose of the Land Use, Development, and Management Act. If
the Estate submits a complete application or petition to rezone the Propety, the Planning
Commission will first consider issuing a recommendation for approval or denial to the Alta Town
Council. The Council will vote to ultimately approve or deny the application upon consideration
of the commission’s recommendation.

The Proposal and Compliance with the Provisions of FM-20 and the Town of Alta General Plan,
and the History of Condominiums in Town of Alta Land Use Planning

While the Estate’s Proposal does not constitute a complete application to rezone or develop the
Property, Staff finds that the Proposal generally complies with FM-20 for the following reasons:

    •   “Lot 1” of the proposed 2-lot subdivision is 6.51 acres with 3.3 acres of net developable
        area, which is calculated by removing slope over 30 percent and areas within 50 feet of
        waterways. 3.3 acres would allow for up to 66 dwelling units and up to 120 guest rooms.
        The presentation does not specify guestrooms but only shows up to 29 dwellings not
        including employee quarters.
    •   The coverage of Lot 1 is roughly 60,000 square feet or 1.37 acres, which is 21% of the
        land area within Lot 1.
    •   Multi-family dwellings are permitted as a conditional use by the Planning Commission.
    •   Height and setbacks are individually determined by the Planning Commission.

The Town of Alta General Plan does not specifically address future uses of the Property. Here
are some excerpts which could be found to affect the Proposal:

        SECTION 3.2 - WETLANDS The Town enforces strict compliance with all federal laws
        pertaining to wetlands. In principle, no wetlands within the town should be filled,
        drained, or otherwise altered for any reason unless results of the “soil & hydrology of
        Albion Basin wetlands” study of 1992 and/or federal law allow replacement or
        mitigation without detriment to the environment. In coordination with the corps of
        engineers and the Salt Lake Valley Health Department, the Town has developed a
        general map locating approximate boundaries of significant wetland and riparian areas.
        Acquisition of privately held properties containing wetlands, for conservation purposes
        is supported.




                                                  3
The Proposal may entail crossing waterways or wetland areas in order to access the proposed
development. However, Staff notes the 2014 Development Agreement includes a plat that
shows driveways to single family dwellings crossing waterways that may also cross defined
wetlands.

        SECTION 3.11 – PUBLIC UTILITIES The town’s water and sewer systems are generally of adequate
        size and arrangement to meet current and anticipated needs consistent with the land use policies
        of this plan as stated in chapter 4. No further extensions of either system are recommended.

The project cannot be approved without a statement of culinary water availability. In order to
develop the condominium project, the Estate may develop a water system consistent in many
respects with the water system contemplated in the 2014 Settlement and Development
Agreements with Salt Lake City and the Town of Alta, which used water from the Bay City Tunnel
and included a distribution and storage system separate from the Town’s.

        SECTION 3.13 – Albion Basin Road because the Albion Basin Road has historically and is currently
        used for winter recreation, the town opposes both the paving and plowing of the Albion Basin
        Road for winter access. The town should continue to provide summer maintenance. The
        information booth at the beginning of the road, that is provided without charge to the public, has
        been very successful and should be continued for summer use .

The Estate applied to the US Forest Service, and was granted approval, to widen and pave
several hundred feet at the beginning of the ABSR in order to access the proposed subdivision.
The Estate is proposing to evaluate alternative driveway locations to access a site below the
ABSR but may decide to pursue the project approved by USFS. The Town does not have
authority to prevent the Estate from pursuing the ABSR paving and widening project.

        SECTION 4.1 - ZONING The existing zoning of all areas should continue. A new zone should be
        created for private lands acquired and placed in the public domain. All areas annexed should be
        subject to study and potential rezoning. Possible changes in use for parcels are not precluded and
        applications for rezoning should be examined for the full range of effects on the public interests
        and environmental impacts.

This section goes on to say the Town’s zoning ordinance was completely revised and adopted in
1990. Various updates to the Town’s zoning ordinance have been updated in the meantime
without updates to this section. The commission should consider updating this section
regardless of the Estate’s Proposal and/or if the commission eventually recommends a rezone of
the Property to the Alta Town Council.

        SECTION 4.3 – TOWN CENTER COMMERCIAL (various excerpts) “…this element focuses
        on the creation, enhancement, support, and concentration of commercial development
        in the areas currently zoned as Base Facilities.” “This area is generally defined as the
        land from Alta Peruvian Lodge to the Albion Base Area.”

The Property is arguably on the outskirts, or just beyond the boundary of, an area described in
the general plan as the “Commercial Core,” as reflected in the General Plan Map showing the
Commercial Core:




                                                        4
Whether and where to allow condominiums has been a hot topic in Town of Alta land use
planning and regulation since the Town was incorporated. Historically, the Town has preferred
single-family home development to condominium development in residential areas in order to
maintain a community with residential characteristics and avoid development of more dwelling
units than can be served by utilities, transportation infrastructure, and other services. However,
there are several residential developments in Alta west of the Commercial Core that are zoned
FM-10 or FM-20, all of which are condominiumized. On the other hand, The Base Facilities Zone
expressly prohibits residential uses including condominiums and the Commercial Core concept
in the General Plan is intended to support concentrated commercial use in central Alta, and all
residential areas east of the Commercial Core are zoned for single-family dwellings. Rezoning
the Property to FM-20 could be seen as a departure from this general pattern.

        SECTION 4.4 - SKI AREA EXPANSION

The General Plan contains general policy statements about ski area expansions complying with
watershed regulations and environmental best management practices, but it does not address
any potential future expansion into Grizzly Gulch. Any development on the Property could affect
Alta Ski Area operations and especially any future expansion of Alta Ski Area into Grizzly Gulch.
Alta Ski Area has expressed concern about impacts to potential Grizzly Gulch chairlift alignments
from various development Proposals and potentially the application of a conservation easement
to portions of the Property.



                                                5
December 18, 2024, Alta Planning Commission Meeting

The purpose of the meeting is for the commission to discuss and provide comments on the
Proposal to the Estate and Town staff. No formal action is requested at this time. Staff
recommends the commission consider the following topics in their review and discussion of the
Proposal:

   •   The development concept is substantially different from what is set forth in the 2014
       agreements between the Estate and the Town and the Estate and SLC. In order for the
       Estate to pursue any concept besides the 10-lot subdivision, both 2014 agreements
       would have to be amended.
   •   One of the key points of litigation between the Estate, Town, and SLC is provision of
       culinary water to the development. SLC will need to agree to provide water to an
       alternative development concept. As of now, SLC is willing to support the discussion
       with the assumption that the Proposal is not likely to increase water demand beyond
       that which is allowed in the Stipulation (i.e. 8000 gallons per day). Staff notes that the
       development as proposed includes more density and greater intensity of use and would
       logically require more water than 10 single-family homes.
   •   Wetland and waterway setback preservation was another key point in the litigation.
       While Town of Alta Ordinance 10-6A-9-G prohibits development “within fifty feet (50’)
       from the high water line of any Waterway,” the plat associated with the 2014
       settlement agreement defines waterways and wetlands on the Property and shows the
       driveways of two lots crossing waterways. Any large development on the portion of the
       property below the ABSR will require access across waterways, and the Estate’s
       presentation shows conceptual site plans that include driveways across waterways.
   •   Whether the Commission supports the concept of developing a single, larger building on
       the portion of the Property below the ABSR, instead of a 10-lot single-family home
       subdivision.
   •   Discussion of the General Plan sections noted above or any other policy statements in
       the General Plan.
   •   Discussion of tradeoffs between the Estate’s entitlement to a 10-lot residential
       subdivision, the layout which was agreed to as part of the Settlement Agreement which
       would affect the entire 25-acre Property, and a condominium project to be built on the
       lowest portion of the Property, in order to preserve from development all acreage on
       the Property above the ABSR.
   •   The proposed building would be 50 percent larger than the next largest building in Alta,
       which Staff believes to be the Snowpine Lodge. Does the conservation of the upper
       acreage of the Property justify the visual impacts or other impacts of permitting such a
       large building on the lower acreage of the Property?
   •   The Proposal the Shrontz Estate will present to the commission on December 18 th does
       not constitute a complete application to rezone the Property. A statement of availability
       of utility services will be required for the Town to consider the application complete.




                                               6
Alta Patsey Marley Parcel
         DECEMBER 06, 2024




                             1
Patsey Marley Development Alternative                  Recent History

2014                                                   March 2023
• Settlement agreement vesting Estate with right to    • Town Council work session to review 9/2022 plan
  develop 10 single family homes on 25 acre
  property.                                            July 2024
                                                       • Conceptual plan amended to further shrink
2019                                                     building and remove hotel component,
• Ownership internally started exploration of condo-   • Preliminary version of current proposal presented
  hotel alternative to single family homes.              to Salt Lake City Public Utilities to begin
                                                         discussion of culinary water service to the
July 2021                                                development.
• Town Council Work Session
• Review of conceptual plan with 48 hotel rooms        November 2024
  and 34 condos                                        • Proposed plat and rezoning of 6.5 acres of site to
• Visual impact comparison with 10 single family         FM-20.
  homes                                                • Site size dictated by Lot Coverage requirements.
                                                         1.5 acres above Summer Road is included in
April 2022                                               development lot, but this area would be subject to
• Ownership obtained all but Town or Town-               a conservation easement precluding development.
  Authorized signatures on 10 Lot mylar                • Proposed density capped at 85,000 sf saleable
                                                         condos.
September 2022                                         • Proposed density maximum 29 condos plus
• Alternative design prepared with 50 hotel rooms        minimum 3 workforce housing units.
  and 25 condos.                                       • Roof height capped at USGS 8875’.
• Building massing improved and building height
  reduced.
• Interior program further refined to address luxury
  hotel requirements
• Visual impact studies updated.



                                                                                                             2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             3
                                                                                                                                                                                      PROPERTY LINE




                                                                                                                90
                                                                                                           90
                                                                                                                          80
                                                                                                                     90
                                                                                                                                         70
                                                                                                                                    90
                                                                       D
                                                                   A
                                                             O
                                                         R
                                                     N
                                                SI                                                                                       906
                                                                                                                                               0
                                            A
                                        B
                                                                                                                                                    50
                                    N                                                                                                          90
                               IO
                          LB
                                                                                                                                                       40
                                                                                                                                                  90
                      A                                                                                                                                  903
                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                             902
                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                              9 01
                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                               90 0
                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                         89 9
                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                       898
                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                              897
                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                896
                                                                                                                                AD
                                                                                                RO                                                     895
                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                             IN
                                                                                          AS
                                                                                      N B
                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                            894
                                                                                BIO                                                                                           0
                                                                           AL                                                                                         893
                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                          89 2
                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                          891
                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                            89 0
                                                         ~18.6AC
                                                          LOT 2




                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                             8 89
                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                 888
                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                 8 87
                 E




                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                      886
                 IN
                     L




                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                           885
                      T




                                                                                                                                              D
                         O




                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                              884
                                                                                                                                        A
                          L




                                                                                                                                    O
                                                                                                                                R                                                             0
                             D




                                                                                                                                                                                      883
                               E




                                                                                                                           IN
                                S




                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                           8 82
                                                                                                                     S
                                    O




                                                                                                                 A
                                    P




                                                                                                           B                                                                                              0
                                        O




                                                                                                                                                                                                      8 81
                                                                                                       N
                                        R




                                                                                                  IO
                                            P
HAWK HILL ROAD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                              B                                                                                                           880
                                                                                          L
                                                                                    A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                              87 9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    878
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     877




                                                                                 ~6.5AC
                                                                                  LOT 1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Alta Patsey Marley, Alta UT December 06, 2024
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Aerial | Topography
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4
                                                                                                                                                                                      PROPERTY LINE




                                                                                                                90
                                                                                                           90
                                                                                                                          80
                                                                                                                     90
                                                                                                                                         70
                                                                                                                                    90
                                                                       D
                                                                   A
                                                             O
                                                         R
                                                     N
                                                SI                                                                                       906
                                                                                                                                               0
                                            A
                                        B
                                                                                                                                                    50
                                    N                                                                                                          90
                               IO
                          LB
                                                                                                                                                       40
                                                                                                                                                  90
                      A                                                                                                                                  903
                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                             902
                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                              9 01
                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                               90 0
                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                         89 9
                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                       898
                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                              897
                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                896
                                                                                                                                AD
                                                                                                RO                                                     895
                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                             IN
                                                                                          AS
                                                                                      N B
                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                            894
                                                                                BIO                                                                                           0
                                                                           AL                                                                                         893
                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                          89 2
                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                          891
                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                            89 0
                                                         ~18.6AC
                                                          LOT 2




                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                             8 89
                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                 888
                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                 8 87
                 E




                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                      886
                 IN
                     L




                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                           885
                      T




                                                                                                                                              D
                         O




                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                              884
                                                                                                                                        A
                          L




                                                                                                                                    O
                                                                                                                                R                                                             0
                             D




                                                                                                                                                                                      883
                               E




                                                                                                                           IN
                                S




                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                           8 82
                                                                                                                     S
                                    O




                                                                                                                 A
                                    P




                                                                                                           B                                                                                              0
                                        O




                                                                                                                                                                                                      8 81
                                                                                                       N
                                        R




                                                                                                  IO
                                            P
HAWK HILL ROAD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                              B                                                                                                           880
                                                                                          L
                                                                                    A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                              87 9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    878
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     877




                                                                                 ~6.5AC
                                                                                  LOT 1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Alta Patsey Marley, Alta UT December 06, 2024
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Aerial | Wetlands
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   5
                                                                                                                                                                                      PROPERTY LINE




                                                                                                                90
                                                                                                           90
                                                                                                                          80
                                                                                                                     90
                                                                                                                                         70
                                                                                                                                    90
                                                                       D
                                                                   A
                                                             O
                                                         R
                                                     N
                                                SI                                                                                       906
                                                                                                                                               0
                                            A
                                        B
                                                                                                                                                    50
                                    N                                                                                                          90
                               IO
                          LB
                                                                                                                                                       40
                                                                                                                                                  90
                      A                                                                                                                                  903
                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                             902
                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                              9 01
                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                               90 0
                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                         89 9
                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                       898
                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                              897
                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                896
                                                                                                                                AD
                                                                                                RO                                                     895
                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                             IN
                                                                                          AS
                                                                                      N B
                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                            894
                                                                                BIO                                                                                           0
                                                                           AL                                                                                         893
                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                          89 2
                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                          891
                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                            89 0
                                                         ~18.6AC
                                                          LOT 2




                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                             8 89
                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                 888
                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                 8 87
                 E




                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                      886
                 IN
                     L




                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                           885
                      T




                                                                                                                                              D
                         O




                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                              884
                                                                                                                                        A
                          L




                                                                                                                                    O
                                                                                                                                R                                                             0
                             D




                                                                                                                                                                                      883
                               E




                                                                                                                           IN
                                S




                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                           8 82
                                                                                                                     S
                                    O




                                                                                                                 A
                                    P




                                                                                                           B                                                                                              0
                                        O




                                                                                                                                                                                                      8 81
                                                                                                       N
                                        R




                                                                                                  IO
                                            P
HAWK HILL ROAD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                              B                                                                                                           880
                                                                                          L
                                                                                    A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                              87 9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    878
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     877




                                                                                 ~6.5AC
                                                                                  LOT 1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Aerial | Watercourse Setback
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Alta Patsey Marley, Alta UT December 06, 2024
                                                         HAWK HILL ROAD




                                                                               CONSERVATION
                                                                             PROPOSED CONSERATION
                                                                             EASEMENTON
                                                                             EASEMENT ONLOT
                                                                                         LOT11




                                                                                                                                             E
                                                                                                                                        IN
                                                                                                                                    L
                                                                                                                                T




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               A
                                                                                                                            O




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LB
                                                                                                                        L
                                                                                                                    D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   IO
                                                                                                                E
                                                                                                            S
                                                                                                        O




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        N
                                                                                                    P
                                                                                                O




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         B
                                                                                            R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              A
                                                                                        P




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  N
                                                                                                                                                               LOT 2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    R
                                                                                                                                                              ~18.6AC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        D
                                                                                                                                                                                          AL
                                                                                                                                                                                          BIO
                                                 LOT 1
                                                ~6.5AC
                                                                              A




                                                                                                                                                                                            N B
                                                                                  L
                                                                                  B
                                                                                   IO




                                                                                                                                                                                                AS
                                                                                        N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    90
                                                                                                                                                                                                   IN
                                                                                                B




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     90
                                                                                                A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               90
                                                                                                    S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               80
                                                                                                                                                                                                      RO
                                                                                                        IN




                                                               LOT 1 NET
                                                                                                                R




                                                                                                                                                                                                       AD
                                                           DEVELOPABLE AREA
                                                                                                                    O




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          90
                                                                                                                        A




                                                                ~3.3AC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          70
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              906
                                                                                                                        D




                                                                                                                                                                                                            897




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        90


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 90
                                                                                                                                                                                                              896




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   40
                                                                                                                                                                                                      895




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      898

                                                                                                                                                                                                                            89 9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           903
                                                                                                                                                                                                894
                                                                                                                                                                     89 0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   902
                                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                              8 89




                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                 8 87


                                                                                                                                                        888




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    9 01



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                                                 0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     90 0
                                                            Project Site                                                                                              0




                                                                                                                                                                                          893




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                        886




                                                                                                                                                                            891


                                                                                                                                                                                   89 2
                                                                                                                                                  0


                                                                                                                                                         0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                885




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                        884




                                                                                                                                                                               0


                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                883


                                                                                                                            0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PROPERTY LINE
                                                                                                        8 82


                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                         0
                                                                                            8 81
                                                                                                0
                                                                                  880
                                                                           87 9



                                                                                   0
                                                                     878



                                                                            0
                                                               877



                                                                      0
                                                                0




Aerial | Contextual Site Map
Alta Patsey Marley, Alta UT December 06, 2024
                                                             PROPOSED
                                                           CONSERVATION
                                                             EASEMENT



                                                     PROPOSED LOT 1
                                                       283,759 SF
                                                       6.51 ACRES




                                                                                                           SLOPE < 30%

                                                                                                      CK
                                                                                             SE   TBA
                                                                                        SE
                                                                                COUR
                                                                            TER
                                                                          WA



                                                                                                           SLOPE > 30%




DEVELOPABLE
 AREA LOT 1

                                                                                                           NET DEVELOPABLE AREA = 143,781 SF (3.3 ACRES)




                                                                                                  0'
                                                                                                0. T
                                                                                              10 EN
                                                                                            G
                                                                                           N E   M
              WATER COURSE SETBACK                                                       TI S
                                                                                      IS EA
                                                                                    EX DE
                                                                                       I
                                                                                     W




                                          PROPOSED LOT 1
                                            283,759 SF
                                            6.51 ACRES



                 DEVELOPABLE AREA LOT 1
                                                                                                                                                           7
8
                                                         HAWK HILL ROAD




                                                                              CONSERVATION
                                                                           PROPOSED CONSERVATION
                                                                            EASEMENTON
                                                                           EASEMENT  ON LOT
                                                                                       LOT 11




                                                                                                                                            E
                                                                                                                                       IN
                                                                                                                                   L
                                                                                                                               T




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              A
                                                                                                                           O




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LB
                                                                                                                       L
                                                                                                                   D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IO
                                                                                                               E
                                                                                                           S
                                                                                                       O




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       N
                                                                                                   P
                                                                                               O




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        B
                                                                                           R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             A
                                                                                       P




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 N
                                                                                                                                                              LOT 2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   R
                                                                                                                                                             ~18.6AC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       D
                                                                                                                                                                                         AL
                                                                                                                                                                                         BIO
                                                 LOT 1
                                                ~6.5AC
                                                                             A




                                                                                                                                                                                           N B
                                                                                 L
                                                                                 B
                                                                                  IO




                                                                                                                                                                                               AS
                                                                                       N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   90
                                                                                                                                                                                                  IN
                                                                                               B




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    90
                                                                                               A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              90
                                                                                                   S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              80
                                                                                                                                                                                                     RO
                                                                                                       IN
                                                                                                               R




                                                                                                                                                                                                      AD
                                                                                                                   O




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         90
                                                                                                                       A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         70
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             906
                                                                                                                       D




                                                                                                                                                                                                           897




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       90


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                90
                                                                                                                                                                                                             896




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        50
                                                                                                                                                                                                               0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  40
                                                                                                                                                                                                     895




                                                                                                                                                                                                                     898

                                                                                                                                                                                                                           89 9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          903
                                                                                                                                                                                               894
                                                                                                                                                                    89 0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  902
                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                             8 89




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                8 87


                                                                                                                                                       888




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   9 01



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    90 0
                                                                                                                                                                     0




                                                                                                                                                                                         893




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                       886




                                                                                                                                                                           891


                                                                                                                                                                                  89 2
                                                                                                                                                 0


                                                                                                                                                        0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                               885




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                       884




                                                                                                                                                                              0


                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                               883


                                                                                                                           0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PROPERTY LINE
                                                                                                       8 82


                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                        0
                                                                                           8 81
                                                                                               0
                                                                                 880
                                                                          87 9



                                                                                  0
                                                                    878



                                                                           0
                                                              877



                                                                     0
                                                               0




Aerial | Proposed Development with All Constrains
Alta Patsey Marley, Alta UT December 06, 2024
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TOTAL BUILT FOOTPRINT   59,100 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LOT 1 AREA              283,759 SF (6.5 ACRES)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LOT COVERAGE            21%




                                                         HAWK HILL ROAD




                                                                             CONSERVATION
                                                                          PROPOSED CONSERVATION
                                                                           EASEMENT
                                                                          EASEMENT ONON LOT
                                                                                      LOT 1 1




                                                                                                                                            E
                                                                                                                                       IN
                                                                                                                                   L
                                                                                                                               T




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              A
                                                                                                                           O




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LB
                                                                                                                       L
                                                                                                                   D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IO
                                                                                                               E
                                                                                                           S
                                                                                                       O




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       N
                                                                                                   P
                                                                                               O




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        B
                                                                                           R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             A
                                                                                       P




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 N
                                                                                                                                                              LOT 2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   R
                                                                                                                                                             ~18.6AC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       D
                                                                                                                                                                                         AL
                                                                                                                                                                                         BIO
                                                 LOT 1
                                                ~6.5AC
                                                                             A




                                                                                                                                                                                           N B
                                                                                 L
                                                                                 B
                                                                                  IO




                                                                                                                                                                                               AS
                                                                                       N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      90
                                                                                                                                                                                                  IN
                                                                                               B




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       90
                                                                                               A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                90
                                                                                                   S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                80
                                                                                                                                                                                                     RO
                                                                                                       IN
                                                                                                               R




                                                                                                                                                                                                      AD
                                                                                                                   O




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         90
                                                                                                                       A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         70
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             906
                                                                                                                       D




                                                                                                                                                                                                           897




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       90


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                90
                                                                                                                                                                                                             896




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        50
                                                                                                                                                                                                               0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  40
                                                                                                                                                                                                     895




                                                                                                                                                                                                                     898

                                                                                                                                                                                                                           89 9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          903
                                                                                                                                                                                               894
                                                                                                                                                                    89 0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  902
                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                             8 89




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                8 87


                                                                                                                                                       888




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   9 01



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    90 0
                                                                                                                                                                     0




                                                                                                                                                                                         893




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                       886




                                                                                                                                                                           891


                                                                                                                                                                                  89 2
                                                                                                                                                 0


                                                                                                                                                        0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                               885




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                       884




                                                                                                                                                                              0


                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                               883


                                                                                                                           0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PROPERTY LINE
                                                                                                       8 82


                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                        0
                                                                                           8 81
                                                                                               0
                                                                                 880
                                                                          87 9



                                                                                  0
                                                                    878



                                                                           0
                                                              877



                                                                     0
                                                               0




Aerial | Proposed Development
Alta Patsey Marley, Alta UT December 06, 2024
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TOTAL BUILT FOOTPRINT   60,428 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LOT 1 AREA              283,759 SF (6.5 ACRES)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LOT COVERAGE            21%




                                                                         HAWK HILL ROAD




                                                                                                                     CONSERVATION
                                                                                                                  PROPOSED CONSERVATION
                                                                                                                   EASEMENT
                                                                                                                  EASEMENT ONON LOT
                                                                                                                              LOT 1 1



                                                                                                                                                                                    E
                                                                                                                                                                               IN
                                                                                                                                                                           L
                                                                                                                                                                       T




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      A
                                                                                                                                                                   O




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LB
                                                                                                                                                               L
                                                                                                                                                           D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          IO
                                                                                                                                                       E
                                                                                                                                                   S
                                                                                                                                               O




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               N
                                                                                                                                           P
                                                                                                                                       O




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                B
                                                                                                                                   R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     A
                                                                                                                               P




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         N
                                                A                                                                                                                                                     LOT 2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           R
                                                    LT                                                                                                                                               ~18.6AC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             O
                                                         E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             A
                                                             R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               D
                                                                 N
                                                                     A
                                                                         T
                                                                             E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AL
                                                                                 D
                                                                                     R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 BIO
                                                                                         IV
                                                     LOT 1                                    E
                                                    ~6.5AC                                        W
                                                                                                                     A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   N B
                                                                                                      A
                                                                                                                         L




                                                                                                          Y
                                                                                                                         B
                                                                                                                          IO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       AS
                                                                                                                               N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              90
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          IN
                                                                                                                                       B




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               90
                                                                                                                                       A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        90
                                                                                                                                           S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        80
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             RO
                                                                                                                                               IN
                                                                                                                                                       R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              AD
                                                                                                                                                           O




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 90
                                                                                                                                                               A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 70
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     906
                                                                                                                                                               D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   897




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               90


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        90
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     896




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          40
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             895




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             898

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   89 9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  903
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       894
                                                                                                                                                                                                            89 0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          902
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                     8 89




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                        8 87


                                                                                                                                                                                               888




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           9 01



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            90 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 893




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                               886




                                                                                                                                                                                                                   891


                                                                                                                                                                                                                          89 2
                                                                                                                                                                                         0


                                                                                                                                                                                                0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                       885




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                               884




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                       883


                                                                                                                                                                   0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PROPERTY LINE
                                                                                                                                               8 82


                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                   8 81
                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                         880
                                                                                                                  87 9



                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                          878



                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                              877



                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                  0




Aerial | Proposed Development (Alternate Driveway)
Alta Patsey Marley, Alta UT December 06, 2024
                                                                                                                                                                                     1    Arrival Court
                                                                                                                                                                                     2    Entry / Vestibule
                                                                                                                                                                                     3    Resi Concierge / Sales
                                                                                                                                                                                     4    Restroom
                                                                                                                                                                                     5    Skier Lounge
                                                                                                                                                                                     6    Ski Storage
                                                                                                         A                                                                           7    Condo
                                                                                                             L
                                                                                                                 B
                                                                                                                     IO                                                              8    Apres Bar
                                                                                                                          N
                                                                                                                              B                                                      9    Resi Lounge / Dining
                                                                                                                                  A
                                                                                                                                      S
                                                                                                                                          IN                                        10    Ski Beach
                                                                                                                                               R
                                                                                                                                                   O                                 11   Kitchen / BOH / MEP
                                                                                                                                                       A
                                                                                                                                                           D
                                                                                                                                                                                    12    BOH
                                                                                                                                                                                    13    Service Elevator
                                                                                                                                                                                    14    Ski Valet Access

                                                                                1

                                                                                                    12
                                                                                           4                         6
                                                                                    2




                                                                                                                                                                                   88



                                                                                                                                                                                              88
                                                                            3




                                                                                                                                                                                                              88
                                                                                                                                                                                     70



                                                                                                                                                                                                80



                                                                                                                                                                                                              90
                                                                   11




                                                                                                                                                                              88
                                                                                        5                    14




                                                                                                                                                                              60
                                                                                                                                                                         88
                                                              13




                                                                                                                                                                         50
                                                                                                                                                                    88
                                                CONDO 1




                                                                                                                                                                    40
                                                                                                                                                               88
                                                3663 NSF
                                                                        8




                                                                                                                                                               30
                                                                                                                                               88
                                                7                                              10




                                                                                                                                                 20
                                                                                                                              88
                                                                   9




                                                                                                                                10
                                                    HOT TUB
                                                    BELOW




                                                                                                         88
                                                                                                             00
                                                               HOT TUB
                                                               BELOW
                                                                                                87
                                                                                                  90
                                                                                    87
                                                                                      80




Floor Plan | Level 1 +8795 (Arrival)                                                                                                                                                                          12
Alta Patsey Marley, Alta UT December 06, 2024
                                                                                                                                                                                 1     Condo Unit
                                                                                                                                                                                2      Workforce Housing (3)
                                                                                                                                                                                3      Owners' Storages
                                                                                                                                                                                4      BOH / Loading
                                                                                                                                                                                5      Garage and Service Entry
                                                                                                                                                                                6      Service Elevator
                                                                                                      A
                                                                                                          L
                                                                                                              B
                                                                                                                  IO
                                                                                                                       N
                                                                                                                           B
                                                                                                                               A
                                                                                                                                   S
                                                                                                                                       IN
                                                                                                                                            R
                                                                                                                                                O
                                                                                                                                                    A
                                                                                                                                                        D




                                                                         5          3




                                                                                                                                                                                88



                                                                                                                                                                                             88



                                                                                                                                                                                                          88
                                                                                                                                                                                  70



                                                                                                                                                                                              80



                                                                                                                                                                                                          90
                                                                              4




                                                                                                                                                                           88
                                                                                          56 STALLS




                                                                                                                                                                           60
                                                                                                                                                                      88
                                                              2
                                                                          6




                                                                                                                                                                      50
                                                                                                                                                                 88
                                                2




                                                                                                                                                                 40
                                                                                                                                                            88
                                                                                                                                                            30
                                                                                                                                            88
                                                    2




                                                                                                                                              20
                                                                                            3
                                                                  1




                                                                                                                           88
                                                                      CONDO 2




                                                                                                                             10
                                                        HOT TUB       3575 NSF
                                                        BELOW




                                                                                                      88
                                                                                                          00
                                                                         HOT TUB
                                                                         BELOW
                                                                                             87
                                                                                               90
                                                                                   87
                                                                                     80




Floor Plan | Level B1 +8783 (Parking)                                                                                                                                                                     13
Alta Patsey Marley, Alta UT December 06, 2024
                                                                                                                                                                          1    ADA Suite
                                                                                                                                                                          2    Fitness
                                                                                                                                                                          3    Relaxation Lounge
                                                                                                                                                                          4    MEP / BOH
                                                                                                                                                                          5    Treatment Rooms
                                                                                                                                                                          6    Toilet / Changing Rooms
                                                                                              A                                                                           7    Hot Tub
                                                                                                  L
                                                                                                      B
                                                                                                          IO                                                              8    Service Elevator
                                                                                                               N
                                                                                                                   B                                                      9    Service Corridor
                                                                                                                       A
                                                                                                                           S
                                                                                                                               IN
                                                                                                                                    R
                                                                                                                                        O
                                                                                                                                            A
                                                                                                                                                D




                                                                                                                                                                        88



                                                                                                                                                                                   88



                                                                                                                                                                                                  88
                                                                                                                                                                          70



                                                                                                                                                                                     80



                                                                                                                                                                                                  90
                                                                                                                                                                   88
                                                        1




                                                                                                                                                                   60
                                                                                                                                                              88
                                                                                                                                                              50
                                                                8




                                                                                                                                                         88
                                                                                                                                                         40
                                                                                                                                                    88
                                                2




                                                                                                                                                    30
                                                                                                                                    88
                                                                        9   4




                                                                                                                                      20
                                                                    5

                                                            3




                                                                                                                   88
                                                    7




                                                                                                                     10
                                                                        6
                                                        7




                                                                                              88
                                                                                                  00
                                                                    7                  87
                                                                                         90
                                                                                87
                                                                                  80




Floor Plan | Level B2 +8771                                                                                                                                                                       14
Alta Patsey Marley, Alta UT December 06, 2024
                                                                                                   A
                                                                                                       L
                                                                                                           B
                                                                                                               IO
                                                                                                                    N
                                                                                                                        B
                                                                                                                            A
                                                                                                                                S
                                                                                                                                    IN
                                                                                                                                         R
                                                                                                                                             O
                                                                                                                                                 A
                                                                                                                                                     D




                                                                                                   MEP




                                                                                                                                                                             88



                                                                                                                                                                                    88
                                                                                       CONDO 7        CONDO 8




                                                                                                                                                                                         88
                                                                                                                                                                               70
                                                                                                   (LOWER LEVEL)




                                                                                                                                                                                    80



                                                                                                                                                                                         90
                                                                                       3206 NSF

                                                                           CONDO 6




                                                                                                                                                                        88
                                                                                                                                                                        60
                                                                           3206 NSF




                                                                                                                                                                   88
                                                               CONDO 5




                                                                                                                                                                   50
                                                                                                                                                              88
                                                CONDO 3         4796 NSF




                                                                                                                                                              40
                                                                                                                                                         88
                                                3663 NSF




                                                                                                                                                         30
                                                                                                                                         88
                                                                                                                                           20
                                                                                                                        88
                                                           CONDO 4




                                                                                                                          10
                                                           3575 NSF




                                                                                                   88
                                                                                                       00
                                                                                            87
                                                                                              90
                                                                                87
                                                                                  80




Floor Plan | Level 2, +8812                                                                                                                                                              15
Alta Patsey Marley, Alta UT December 06, 2024
                                                                                                   A
                                                                                                       L
                                                                                                           B
                                                                                                               IO
                                                                                                                    N
                                                                                                                        B
                                                                                                                            A
                                                                                                                                S
                                                                                                                                    IN
                                                                                                                                         R
                                                                                                                                             O
                                                                                                                                                 A
                                                                                                                                                     D




                                                                                                      CONDO 8




                                                                                                                                                                             88



                                                                                                                                                                                    88
                                                                                      CONDO 13     (UPPER FLOOR)




                                                                                                                                                                                         88
                                                                                                                                                                               70



                                                                                                                                                                                    80



                                                                                                                                                                                         90
                                                                                       3206 NSF        4912 NSF

                                                                           CONDO 12




                                                                                                                                                                        88
                                                                                                                                                                        60
                                                                           3206 NSF




                                                                                                                                                                   88
                                                               CONDO 11




                                                                                                                                                                   50
                                                                                                                                                              88
                                                CONDO 9         4796 NSF




                                                                                                                                                              40
                                                                                                                                                         88
                                                3663 NSF




                                                                                                                                                         30
                                                                                                                                         88
                                                                                                                                           20
                                                                                                                        88
                                                           CONDO 10




                                                                                                                          10
                                                           3575 NSF




                                                                                                    88
                                                                                                       00
                                                                                            87
                                                                                              90
                                                                                87
                                                                                  80




Floor Plan | Level 3, +8824                                                                                                                                                              16
Alta Patsey Marley, Alta UT December 06, 2024
                                                                                                  A
                                                                                                      L
                                                                                                          B
                                                                                                              IO
                                                                                                                   N
                                                                                                                       B
                                                                                                                           A
                                                                                                                               S
                                                                                                                                   IN
                                                                                                                                        R
                                                                                                                                            O
                                                                                                                                                A
                                                                                                                                                    D




                                                                                                  CONDO 17




                                                                                                                                                                            88
                                                                                                  3206 NSF




                                                                                                                                                                                   88
                                                                                     CONDO 16




                                                                                                                                                                                        88
                                                                                                                                                                              70



                                                                                                                                                                                   80



                                                                                                                                                                                        90
                                                                                      3206 NSF

                                                                          CONDO 15




                                                                                                                                                                       88
                                                                                                                                                                       60
                                                                          3206 NSF




                                                                                                                                                                  88
                                                               CONDO 14




                                                                                                                                                                  50
                                                                                                                                                             88
                                                               4796 NSF




                                                                                                                                                             40
                                                                                                                                                        88
                                                                                                                                                        30
                                                ROOF TERRACE




                                                                                                                                        88
                                                                                                                                          20
                                                                                                                       88
                                                                                                                         10
                                                                                                  88
                                                                                                      00
                                                                                           87
                                                                                             90
                                                                               87
                                                                                 80




Floor Plan | Level 4 +8836                                                                                                                                                              17
Alta Patsey Marley, Alta UT December 06, 2024
                                                                                                  A
                                                                                                      L
                                                                                                          B
                                                                                                              IO
                                                                                                                   N
                                                                                                                       B
                                                                                                                           A
                                                                                                                               S
                                                                                                                                   IN
                                                                                                                                        R
                                                                                                                                            O
                                                                                                                                                A
                                                                                                                                                    D




                                                                                                  CONDO 21




                                                                                                                                                                            88
                                                                                                  3206 NSF




                                                                                                                                                                                   88
                                                                                     CONDO 20




                                                                                                                                                                                        88
                                                                                                                                                                              70



                                                                                                                                                                                   80



                                                                                                                                                                                        90
                                                                                      3206 NSF

                                                                          CONDO 19




                                                                                                                                                                       88
                                                                                                                                                                       60
                                                                          3206 NSF




                                                                                                                                                                  88
                                                               CONDO 18




                                                                                                                                                                  50
                                                                                                                                                             88
                                                               4796 NSF




                                                                                                                                                             40
                                                                                                                                                        88
                                                                                                                                                        30
                                                ROOF TERRACE




                                                                                                                                        88
                                                                                                                                          20
                                                                                                                       88
                                                                                                                         10
                                                                                                  88
                                                                                                      00
                                                                                           87
                                                                                             90
                                                                               87
                                                                                 80




Floor Plan | Level 5 +8848                                                                                                                                                              18
Alta Patsey Marley, Alta UT December 06, 2024
                                                                                A
                                                                                    L
                                                                                        B
                                                                                            IO
                                                                                                 N
                                                                                                     B
                                                                                                         A
                                                                                                             S
                                                                                                                 IN
                                                                                                                      R
                                                                                                                          O
                                                                                                                              A
                                                                                                                                  D




                                                                                                                                                          88



                                                                                                                                                                 88



                                                                                                                                                                      88
                                                                                                                                                            70



                                                                                                                                                                 80
                                                             PENTHOUSE




                                                                                                                                                                      90
                                                              9100 NSF




                                                                                                                                                     88
                                                                                                                                                     60
                                                                                                                                                88
                                                                                                                                                50
                                                                                                                                           88
                                                                                                                                           40
                                                                                                                                      88
                                                                                                                                      30
                                                                                                                      88
                                                                                                                        20
                                                ROOF BELOW




                                                                                                     88
                                                                                                       10
                                                                                88
                                                                                    00
                                                                         87
                                                                           90
                                                                87
                                                                  80




Floor Plan | Level 6, +8860                                                                                                                                           19
Alta Patsey Marley, Alta UT December 06, 2024
                                                      ARRIVAL DRIVE




                                                  PARKING/
                                                SERVICE DRIVE

                                                                                            +116

                                                                                     +112




                                                                                                                              88



                                                                                                                                     88



                                                                                                                                          88
                                                                                                                                70



                                                                                                                                     80



                                                                                                                                          90
                                                                                                                         88
                                                                                                                         60
                                                                                                                    88
                                                                                         +112




                                                                                                                    50
                                                                                                               88
                                                                                                               40
                                                                                                          88
                                                                                                          30
                                                                                                   88
                                                                                                     20
                                                                        SKI BEACH




                                                                                            88
                                                                                              10
                                                                                    88
                                                                                    00
                                                                             87
                                                                               90
                                                                      87
                                                                        80




Floor Plan | Conceptual Grading Study                                                                                                     20
Alta Patsey Marley, Alta UT December 06, 2024
                                                                                                        T.O.R +8875'


                                                                                        CONDO PENTHOUSE                      15'    LEVEL 6 +8860'
                                                                            CONDO                                            12'    LEVEL 5 +8848'
                                                                            CONDO                                            12'    LEVEL 4 +8836'

                                                                            CONDO                                            12'    LEVEL 3 +8824'

                                                                            CONDO                                  MEP       12'    LEVEL 2 +8812'

                                                    CONDO                   ARRIVAL / CONDO AMENITY                STORAGE   17'    LEVEL 1 +8795'

                                                    CONDO                   WORKFORCE HOUSING / GARAGE / SERVICE             12'   LEVEL B1 +8783'
                                                FITNESS / TREATMENT   MEP                                                    12'   LEVEL B2 +8771'
                                                ROOM / HOT TUBS /
                                                ADA SUITE




Diagramatic Section                                                                                                                                  21
Alta Patsey Marley, Alta UT December 06, 2024
                                                                  CONDO PROGRAM SUMMARY
                                                               QUANTITY       QUANTITY        SQFT (NET)       SQFT (GROSS)    SQFT (GROSS)
                  LEVEL                    PROGRAM                                                                                             SQFT (GROSS)
                                                               (CONDO)        (OTHERS)         (CONDO)           (CONDO)         (OTHERS)
              Level 6 +8860                 Penthouse                     1                          9,100            9,322
              Level 5 +8848                Condo Units                    4                        14,414            16,412
              Level 4 +8836                Condo Units                    4                        14,414            16,412
              Level 3 +8824                Condo Units                    6                        21,652            24,975
              Level 2 +8812                Condo Units                    5                        20,152            24,975
              Level 1 +8795                Condo Units                    1               -         3,663             4,102
                                           Condo Units                    1                         2,663             3,187
           Level B1 +8783                   Workforce
                                                                                         3                 -                          4,231
                                             Housing
           Level B2 +8771                   ADA Suite                                    1                 -                           1,110


              TOTAL UNITS                                             22                 4
   TOTAL SALELLABLE ( NET SQFT)                                                                    86,058
     TOTAL GROSS AREA (SQFT)                                                                                         99,385           5,341         104.726




                                                                     OVERALL PROJECT PROGRAM SUMMARY
                                                                                              SQFT (NET)        SQFT (NET)     SQFT (GROSS)    SQFT (GROSS)
      LEVEL                              PROGRAM                              #STALLS          ABOVE             BELOW           BELOW           ABOVE         SQFT (GROSS)
                                                                                               GRADE             GRADE           GRADE           GRADE
  Level 6 +8760                          Penthouse                                                   9,100                                            9,322           9,322
  Level 5 +8748                         Condo Units                                                 14,414                                            16,412         16,412
  Level 4 +8836                         Condo Units                                                 14,414                                            16,412         16,412
  Level 3 +8824                         Condo Units                                                21,652                                            24,975          24,975
                                        Condo Units                                                 20,152
  Level 2 +8812                                                                                                                        1,770         23,205          24,975
                                            MEP                                                                       1,500
                                        Condo Units                                                 3,663
                              Resi Lounge/Apres Bar (Breakfast)                                     4,555
                                       Skiers Lounge                                                3,000
  Level 1 +8795
                                         Restrooms                                                    662                             3,988          20,092          24,080
  (Arrival)
                                   Resi Concierge / Sales                                             929
                                    Kitchen / BOH / MEP                                             2,050
                                         Ski Storage                                                                  3,380
                                        Condo Units                                                 2,663
                                     Workforce Housing                                              3,045
  Level B1 +8783                                                                                                                      5,449           9,033          14,482
                                     Owners' Storages                                                                 3,600
                                       Loading BOH                                                                     1,018
                                           Fitness                                                   2,185
                                   Spa Treatment Rooms                                                608
                                Pool Toilet / Changing Rooms                                          755
  Level B2 +8771                                                                                                                      3,342            9,891         13,233
                                     Relaxation Lounge                                               1736
                                         ADA Suite                                                  1,058
                                            MEP                                                                       2,740
  Level B1 +8783
                                          Parking                                        56                           15,120          18,120                         18,120
  (Parking)


      TOTAL                                                                              56       100,299            27,358          32,669         129,342         162,011



Area Summary                                                                                                                                                                  22
Alta Patsey Marley, Alta UT December 06, 2024
Patsey Marley Development Alternative

1. Preservation of Patsey Marley Hill
 • 18.6 acre parcel above Summer Road protected with Conservation Easement.
 • 6.5 acre parcel rezoned for condo development, with 1.5 acres of parcel above Summer Road protected
   with Conservation Easement.

2. Building height consistent with Snowpine lodge (25’ above Summer Road)
 • FM-20 Zone permits height as approved by Planning Commission.
 • Proposed project consolidates density in small corner of 25 acre property, pushing up height in that corner
   and leaving 20 acres above Summer Road untouched.

3. Proposed Density
 • Project limited to maximum 29 condos with maximum 85,000 sf salable area.
 • Project limited to maximum 132 bedrooms/guest rooms.

4. Workforce Housing
 • Project proposing minimum 3 workforce housing units with minimum 8 bedrooms in addition to the salable
   condo units.

5. Access
 • Widen shared section of Summer Road for OSV on NE (high) side with pavement for cars on SW (low) side.
 • Widen Summer Road on Patsey Marley property for OSV parking just past start of project driveway.
 • Alternative separate driveway is possible, but subject to cooperation from USFS and Ski Corp.

6. Summary
 • Proposed rezoning facilitates preservation of 20 acres of Patsey Marley Hill.
 • Development Agreement would clarify entitlements and obligations for property.
 • Final building design subject to Conditional Use Permit.


                                                                                                             23
              412’

                     32




                                                     3’
                       1’




                                                38




                                                          N

Aerial South Massing View (Condo Bldg)                        24
Alta Patsey Marley, Alta UT December 06, 2024
              412’

                      32




                                                     3’
                                                38
                       1’




                                                          N


Aerial South Massing View (Houses)                            25
Alta Patsey Marley, Alta UT December 06, 2024
26
