March 26, 2025 APC Meeting Packet                                                              Page 1 of 47
       MAYOR                                                                              TOWN OF ALTA
    ROGER BOURKE                                                                           P.O. BOX 8016
                                                                                         ALTA, UTAH 84092
    TOWN COUNCIL
    CAROLYN ANCTIL                                                                       TEL (801) 363-5105
      JOHN BYRNE                                                                           (801) 742-3522
     DAN SCHILLING                                                                       FAX (801)742-1006
     ELISE MORGAN                                                                              TTY 711




                           Alta Planning Commission Meeting Packet
                                        March 26, 2025
Document Tips: The sections below are each hyperlinked to help you navigate straight to a section of
interest. Page numbers refer to the header numbers on the top right of the page in blue.


Table of Contents
2                 Agenda
3 - 10            Draft February 26, 2025 Meeting Minutes
11 - 17           Staff Report: Shallow Shaft Restaurant Proposed Base Facilities Zone Ordinance Text
                  Amendment and Redevelopment Vision
18 - 47           Presentation: Shallow Shaft Redevelopment Proposal
          March 26, 2025 APC Meeting Packet                                                                                            Page 2 of 47
                MAYOR                                                                                                        TOWN OF ALTA
             ROGER BOURKE                                                                                                     P.O. BOX 8016
                                                                                                                            ALTA, UTAH 84092
            TOWN COUNCIL
            CAROLYN ANCTIL                                                                                                  TEL (801) 363-5105
              JOHN BYRNE                                                                                                      (801) 742-3522
             ELISE MORGAN                                                                                                   FAX (801)742-1006
             DAN SCHILLING                                                                                                       TTY 711




                                                               AGENDA
                                                  ALTA PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
                                                  WEDNESDAY MARCH 26th, 2025 3:00 PM
                                                        ALTA COMMUNITY CENTER
                                                              ALTA, UTAH

 We encourage you to join us in person. This will be a hybrid meeting. For information about how to view the
              meeting online, please visit https://townofalta.utah.gov/events/ or watch live
                                  https://townofalta.utah.gov/live-stream/

            Public comment - please note, each person will be able to speak for up to 3 minutes.
  Written public input can be submitted in advance to Chris Cawley via email (ccawley@townofalta.utah.gov)
                   To make a public comment virtually we recommend notifying Molly Austin via email
                               (molly@townofalta.utah.gov) in advance of the meeting.

                    3:00 PM        Alta Planning Commission Meeting Agenda
                                   Alta Community Center
             1      Call the meeting to order
             2      Public comment
             3      Approval of the minutes of the February 26, 2025 meeting
             4      Presentation and Discussion: Shallow Shaft Redevelopment Proposal
             5      New business
             6      Date of next meeting
             7      Motion to adjourn

Notice Provisions:
     •    Motions relating to any of the foregoing including ﬁnal action may be taken at the meeting.
     •    One or more members of the Alta Planning Commission may attend by electronic means, including telephonically. Such members may fully participate in
          the proceedings as if physically present. The anchor location for purposes of the electronic meeting is the ALTA COMMUNITY CENTER, 10361 EAST HWY
          210, ALTA, UTAH
     •    Reasonable accommodations (including auxiliary communicative aids and services) for individuals with disabilities may be provided upon receipt of a
          request with three (3) working days’ notice. For assistance, please call the Alta Town Oﬃce at 801-363-5105
March 26, 2025 APC Meeting Packet                                                       Page 3 of 47




                                     MEETING MINUTES
                           ALTA PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
                             Wednesday, February 26, 2025, 3:00 PM
                      Alta Community Center, 10351 E. Highway 210, Alta, Utah


ALTA PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING – 3:00 PM

PRESENT:                   Jon Nepstad, Chair
                           Jeff Niermeyer, Vice-Chair
                           Rob Voye
                           David Abraham
                           Maren Askins
                           Roger Bourke, Town of Alta Mayor

STAFF PRESENT: Chris Cawley, Town Manager




                                                 T
               Molly Austin, Assistant Town Manager
               Polly McLean, Town Attorney

ALSO PRESENT:
                                    AF
                           John Guldner, Cottonwood Lands Advisory

NOT PRESENT:


    1. INTRODUCTION AND WELCOME FROM THE CHAIR
           R
Planning Commission Chair Jon Nepstad opened the February 26, 2025 meeting at 3:00 PM.
          D

    2. PUBLIC COMMENT

No public comments received.

    3. APPROVAL OF MINUTES FROM THE JANUARY 22, 2025, MEETING

Jeff Niermeyer moved to approve the minutes from the January 22, 2025 meeting. Maren Askins
seconded. All in favor and minutes approved.

    4. PRESENTATION AND DISCUSSION: SHRONTZ ESTATE PROPOSAL to
       DEVELOP a CONDOMINIUM PROJECT on PATSEY MARLEY HILL
       PROPERTY

Jon Nepstad introduced this agenda item as a continuation of the conversation of the Estate’s
proposal to develop a condominium project as an alternative to a 10-lot residential subdivision.



Alta Planning Commission Meeting Minutes
February 26, 2025                                                                                  1
March 26, 2025 APC Meeting Packet                                                       Page 4 of 47




Jeff Niermeyer questioned whether a formal application was up for consideration at this time.
Polly Mclean noted that this conversation is considered a work session and no formal action is
being taken regarding an application. Wade Budge offered to revisit this question later in the
meeting.

Doug Ogilvy introduced himself as representing the Shrontz Estate on the Patsey Marley parcel.
He summarized that the question before the Planning Commission is whether they are in favor of
building a10-lot subdivision to include expansion and paving of a portion of the Albion Basin
Summer Road, as approved in a 2014 settlement agreement, (“Development Concept A”) or the
recently proposed concept of one larger condominium building on the southeast corner of the
property with a proposed alternative paved access road running parallel (to the west, or
downslope, of the summer road) accompanied with a 20-acre conservation easement (
“Development Concept B”).

Doug noted that after the site visit to the property last month, he noticed that the building
renderings showing height and massing compared to the surrounding treetops was inaccurate,
and the Estate updated their renderings for accuracy. Doug also stated that another outstanding




                                                T
question from the previous meeting was about water usage, and that they invited a representative
from Aqua Engineering to speak on that topic later this evening.
                                    AF
Jon Nepstad asked that the Estate discuss their proposal to access the project. Doug Ogilvy
responded by saying that the approved access plan with Development Concept A is shared access
along the Albion Basin Summer Road with a parking structure and the alternative proposed in
Development Concept B is to build a new access road to run parallel to the Summer Road, thus
maintaining the Summer Road as it is in its current form and usage. Doug said he believes both
the Estate and the Town prefer this new alternative.
           R
Jeff Niermeyer asked Doug Ogilvy if the estate has approached the USFS about the alternative
access route proposed in Development Concept B. Doug stated that they have not engaged with
the Forest Service yet on that topic.
          D


Maren Askins asked if Alta Ski Area is in favor of the new road. Doug stated that they haven’t
gotten into the details of that yet with representatives from Alta Ski Area, but that working
closely with them is paramount regardless of which alternative is considered.

Jon Nepstad noted that this new alternative has a greater impact and disturbance in the area and
asked why this is the preference. Doug Ogilvy stated that there are some trade-offs, notably that
this alternative will provide two roads to accommodate different user groups vs. having all users
share one road. Chris Cawley clarified that without the new driveway, there would still be
significant disturbance in the area with the widening and extending of the Summer Road.

Jeff Niermeyer asked about the location and access to the public restrooms. Doug noted that after
discussion at the last meeting, he understood it to be the Town’s preference to keep public
restrooms as a separate out-building located closer to the winter access gate.




Alta Planning Commission Meeting Minutes
February 26, 2025                                                                                   2
March 26, 2025 APC Meeting Packet                                                        Page 5 of 47




Polly asked how the current Summer Road would be impacted with Development Concept A.
Doug Ogilvy reported that the Summer Road is currently 34’ wide and it would be adjusted to
46’ in width.

Doug Ogilvy introduced Dan Woodbury from Aqua Engineering to discuss water usage. Mr.
Woodbury noted that the Estate established a cap of 8,000 gallons of water usage per day. He
continued that the number of units in Development Concept B (estimated at 34 total units) would
put that State requirement out of reach (assuming 400 gallons per unit per day), so they have
approached the State to request a reduction as State code allows on a case-by-case basis. Mr.
Woodbury continued that they gathered data from similar developments in the Deer Valley area
to use for comparison. He further noted that the request is for 250 gallons a day, which is
significantly higher than the samples they are using for comparison. He continued to make the
distinction that the units proposed in Development Concept B would have no outdoor usage
(such as irrigation) further reducing the need.

Jeff Niermeyer asked how the square footage of the proposed units compares to the ones they are
using as comparable in Deer Valley, to ensure that we are conducting an “apples to apples”




                                                T
comparison. Mr. Woodbury stated that they are factoring in square footage in their comparisons
and reiterated that discrepancy in outdoor water usage. Jeff then asked about the time period they
are using to measure – whether it was day, peak month, year, etc. Mr. Woodbury noted that they
                                    AF
are collecting data for 36 months. Jeff described that per state code, there must be an enforceable
mechanism to ensure the monthly cap is not exceeded, which he opined could be a challenge
during peak visitor months like the holidays.

Jon Nepstad asked the Estate provide the commission with the data Mr. Woodbury described for
the comparable developments. Mr. Woodbury noted that they are currently evaluating 4 other
properties and are looking to add a few more, including some in Little Cottonwood Canyon.
           R

Maren Askins asked about how the additional communal facilities (like food and beverage
outlets) are being factored into the water usage calculations. Mr. Woodbury noted that would be
          D

factored in when considering the total number of connections in the development. Jon Nepstad
inquired about the anticipated timing to submit a report to the State and Mr. Woobdury stated
they expected to have it ready in 3-4 weeks.

Chris Cawley inquired what the process is like with the State of Utah for review and approval.
Dan Woodbury stated the State would ultimately issue a letter of approval that would be
submitted to the Town of Alta.

Rob Voye asked about the state-level requirements vs. SLC Department of Public Utilities
(SLCDPU). Jeff Niermeyer clarified that the State sets the drinking water requirements and
SLCDPU holds the contract for the source of supply. He provided a useful analogy that
SLCDPU provides the bucket of water, and the State determines how quickly the bucket can be
drained.

Polly Mclean asked about the distinction between connections and fixtures. Mr. Woodbury
explained that the State will do a calculation to determine the ERC (equivalent residential


Alta Planning Commission Meeting Minutes
February 26, 2025                                                                                  3
March 26, 2025 APC Meeting Packet                                                           Page 6 of 47




connection) based on predicted usage. Jeff Niermeyer elaborated that the number of bedrooms
would factor into the ERC calculation as more bedrooms equate to increased usage through the
fixture units.

Wade Budge, legal representative of the Estate, introduced himself. He stated that since the
previous Planning Commission meeting, they have conducted additional meetings with
representatives from SLCDPU and the Town of Alta. Wade clarified that they have also since
submitted an official application to the Town for a re-zone to accommodate Development
Concept B.

Wade explained that per the 2014 agreement, the Estate cannot seek any changes to
Development Concept A without getting consent from both SLCDPU and the Town of Alta. In
October, they received a letter confirming consent from SLCDPU to move forward with
Development Concept B and are now working to determine if the Town is also amenable to the
new concept. Wade noted that the application they submitted to the Town for a re-zone could
easily be terminated if the Town wasn’t interested in consenting to the process. He then stated
that property owners have certain rights when it comes to land use applications, but that he




                                                  T
recognized they are not yet in that category.

Wade then led a high-level overview discussion of the process and the roles of the Planning
                                    AF
Commission versus the Town Council. At this point, they are seeking a recommendation for a re-
zone from the Planning Commission to the Town Council. The Planning Commission cannot
approve a re-zone, but they can offer a recommendation in favor of, against, or in favor of with
conditions or comments, to the Town Council. Wade continued that ultimately it is the Town
Council that the Estate will have to work with to get this project approved, with the following
asks:
           R
    •    A re-zone of the property from FR-1 to FM-20
    •    Amendments to the development agreement currently in force
          D

If the Estate and the Town Council agree to those terms, the Estate would return to the Planning
Commission with a land use application consisting of a conditional use permit and a
condominium plat. Wade emphasized that if they get to that point, they will come back to the
Planning Commission with all of the outstanding details that are currently in question (like total
number of water fixtures, how they would mitigate some of the detrimental impacts of the
project, accounting for the rights of Alta Ski Lifts that are already in place, etc.). At this point,
they are presenting the Planning Commission with the general outline of Development Concept
B and are seeking comments, but recognize it is not a complete project plan as many of those
details would be sorted out further along in the process.

Jeff Niermeyer noted that the wetlands should be added to their list of items for consideration.

Wade Budge then continued to describe what details would be required in a conditional use
permit application, such as:
   • Compliance with set-back requirements
   • Avoiding unlawful impacts on wetlands

Alta Planning Commission Meeting Minutes
February 26, 2025                                                                                       4
March 26, 2025 APC Meeting Packet                                                          Page 7 of 47




Wade once again stated that this is a voluntary process and that if the Town withdraw from it or
declines to approve the Estate’s proposal, the Estate would revert to Development Concept A as
agreed upon in 2014. The conversation for today is to offer comments on the consideration of a
re-zone.

Jeff Niermeyer noted that the dialogue on this topic thus far has been restricted to the Planning
Commission and he expressed interest in opening up the conversation to the greater Town of
Alta community. Wade noted that his preference would be to have a formal public hearing in
conjunction with the March Planning Commission meeting that would include an overview of
the project details the Estate has shared to-date. Jon Nepstad highlighted the importance of
providing community members with visual representations of the impacts of Development
Concept B and proposed holding an open-house style meeting to allow for broader community
input in a more informal setting.

The Estate and the Commission discussed possible details for how an open house meeting would
be conducted and the Planning Commission came to a consensus to move in the direction of




                                                 T
getting one scheduled.

Polly Mclean asked for clarification on the revised development agreement to go along with the
                                    AF
re-zone as well as the current settlement/development agreement. Wade clarified that the
development agreement from February 14, 2014 was an administrative development agreement,
meaning that it did not seek a variation in zoning. He noted that the choice to re-zone is
legislative, meaning it would come from the Town Council. Wade then emphasized that a re-
zone would not be pursued without being accompanied by an updated development agreement
that included the conservation easement terms, the alternative access route, and a “host of other
items”, one of which is a stipulation about the water usage, noting that element would require
           R
cooperation from SLCDPU.

Jon Nepstad asked for clarification on who would hold the conservation easement. Wade stated
          D

that the Estate would pick a qualified donee that is acceptable to all parties and added that the
Estate had informal conversations with Friends of Alta as an interested and qualified party.

Wade then stated that a mutual water company would be formed to manage and enforce the
requirements related to water usage.

Rob Voye asked about the inclusion of Alta Ski Lifts in the conversation and if they are
comfortable with the proposal as it stands. Wade stated he could not speak on their behalf but
that he understands that including and working with them is essential, especially in regard to
obtaining approvals from the USFS and evaluating the impacts to skiers in the development area.

David Abraham clarified that the re-zone request is for the FM-20 zone and then asked about the
developable acreage. Doug Ogilvy explained that the total lot size is approximately 6 acres, but
since the uphill portion of the lot is designated for conservation, the developable acreage is closer
to 2.5 acres. David Abraham then asked for clarification that the building height is a standard



Alta Planning Commission Meeting Minutes
February 26, 2025                                                                                    5
March 26, 2025 APC Meeting Packet                                                         Page 8 of 47




that will be determined by the Planning Commission and not something that would be included
in a recommendation to the Town Council, which Polly McLean confirmed.

The commission discussed a summary of next steps:

    •    Estate representatives to coordinate with TOA staff to host an Open House for
         community input for some time in March
    •    Estate requests to be on the agenda for the March Planning Commission meeting,
         assuming the timing allows with the Open House
    •    Planning Commission gets to a position to be ready to make a recommendation to the
         Town Council with any comments they may have
    •    Town Council weighs comments from the Planning Commission along with a draft
         Development Agreement
    •    Development Agreement to outline what process would be followed should the
         application for a re-zone be approved
    •    Estate to return to the Planning Commission with an application for a Conditional Use
         Permit as early as this summer




                                                 T
    •    The conservation benefits get transferred to the qualified donee as soon as practicable

Jeff Niermeyer asked Polly Mclean how the Planning Commission can make their
                                    AF
recommendation to the Town Council. Polly noted that the application for a re-zone was
officially submitted to the Town recently and the Town is still evaluating whether it is a
complete application. If the Town determines the application is complete, the next step would be
to bring that application before the Planning Commission for a formal recommendation.

Rob Voye noted that with the addition of an Open House meeting, there may be a need to push
           R
back the regularly scheduled Planning Commission to allow for enough time to advertise the
event and then synthesize the information gathered from the public. A discussion then followed
on the logistics of the Open House meeting, with an emphasis on the fact that it is an
informational meeting for the public to gather comments and feedback.
          D


    5. OPEN AND PUBLIC MEETINGS ACT TRAINING

Polly McLean introduced the Open and Public Meetings Act and summarized that the basis of
the Act is to ensure that public business is conducted transparently and in he public. The Act
applies to any public body of two or more individuals supported by tax money or with decision-
making authority. A meeting is defined as a quorum of a public body, which for the Alta
Planning Commission means three or more members convening to discuss, receive comments, or
act on town-related matters.

Polly clarified that casual social interactions among members do not constitute a meeting unless
town business is discussed. Polly addressed potential issues with electronic communications
(such as email chains and group text messages), explaining that if a quorum participates and
town business is discussed, such exchanges could qualify as meetings and must comply with the
Act. Polly urged avoiding actions that could be perceived as circumventing the law.


Alta Planning Commission Meeting Minutes
February 26, 2025                                                                                   6
March 26, 2025 APC Meeting Packet                                                       Page 9 of 47




Examples were provided to illustrate acceptable practices, such as communicating directly one-
on-one with Town staff. Social events and casual interactions, such as meeting on a chairlift or
having dinner, are permissible if town business is not discussed. However, Polly cautioned
against post-meeting discussions or private deliberations that could undermine the transparency
of decision-making. It was noted that any decision must be discussed openly in meetings to
ensure public awareness and participation.

Polly also touched on the importance of preserving government records, such as emails and
messages, and recommended using official town email accounts to ensure compliance with
GRAMA requests. She then reviewed requirements for meeting locations, including anchor
locations for electronic meetings and exceptions during emergencies. She also discussed the
requirement that all meetings are recorded and have minutes published. Polly briefly discussed
the topic of closed meetings, explaining they are allowed for specific purposes, but that it is
unlikely for the Planning Commission to convene a closed meeting.

Meeting notices and agendas must be posted at least 24 hours in advance and include sufficient
detail for the public to understand the topics. Emergency meetings require the maximum possible




                                               T
notice under the circumstances. Polly highlighted that public comments are welcomed on any
topic, but decisions can only be made on agenda-listed items. Jon Nepstad asked if the Planning
Commission could request that people giving public comments provide their zip code or address
                                    AF
before providing a public comment. Polly clarified that while it is something the Commission
can ask for, they could not limit someone’s ability to speak based on where they reside.

Polly noted that the minutes are considered the official record of the meeting, but that audio
recordings must also be retained indefinitely. Chris Cawley and Polly noted that Town staff
tends to strike a nice balance between a full transcript and a very general summary of the
meeting proceedings in how the minutes are presented. As members of the public body, the
           R
Planning Commission can request the minutes be either more or less comprehensive to meet their
preference.
          D

Polly warned of serious consequences for knowingly violating the Act, including potential legal
ramifications. Polly provided additional training resources, including a link to receive a
certificate of having completed the annual training requirement.


    6. NEW BUSINESS

No new business.



    7. DATE OF NEXT MEETING

The next meeting is scheduled for March 26, 2025, at 3:00 PM.




Alta Planning Commission Meeting Minutes
February 26, 2025                                                                                  7
March 26, 2025 APC Meeting Packet                                                     Page 10 of 47




Planning Commission members and staff discussed potential details of an open-house style
meeting in March, but the date has not been determined. It was noted that the regular meeting
scheduled for March 26 may have to be rescheduled due to the timing of the open house.
Conversation continued about the logistics of an open house and how public feedback will be
received.

    8. MOTION TO ADJOURN

Planning Commission member Jeff Niermeyer moved to adjourn the meeting. Planning
Commission Member Maren Askins seconded the motion, and the motion was carried with
unanimous consent of the commission.



Minutes Approved on March 26, 2025




                                               T
__________________________
Chris Cawley, Town Manager
                                    AF
           R
          D




Alta Planning Commission Meeting Minutes
February 26, 2025                                                                                8
March 26, 2025 APC Meeting Packet                                                                       Page 11 of 47




    Alta Planning Commission

    Staff Report


    To: Alta Planning Commission
    From: Chris Cawley, Town Manager
    Date: March 19, 2025
    Re: Shallow Shaft Restaurant Proposed Base Facilities Zone Ordinance Text Amendment and
    Redevelopment Vision – March 2025 Update
    Attachments: The Shallow Shaft Property Redevelopment PowerPoint/.pdf


    Introduction

    The owners of the Shallow Shaft restaurant are requesting a text amendment to the Base
    Facilities zoning district that would apply to their property. They would demolish the existing
    structure to pursue a redevelopment on the property. Both the existing structure and the
    proposed future structure and land uses exhibit nonconformity and noncompliance issues under
    Town of Alta Code even with the proposed text amendment . The owners of the Shallow Shaft
    presented a previous version of this concept to the Alta Planning Commission in April 2024 and
    request another opportunity to discuss their vision for the Shallow Shaft property with the
    commission. Much of the content of this document mirrors the report staff provided for last
    year’s presentation as the revised proposal still does not address the concerns and
    noncompliance.

    The minutes of the April 24, 2024 meeting included the following:

         Planning commission members then engaged in the discussion and raised questions about various
         aspects of the proposal and the shallow shaft parcel, including parking arrangements, concerns
         about short term rentals, the loss of a restaurant, possible considerations for employee housing,
         potential impacts on traffic, and other compliance issues with the current zoning regulations. The
         planning commission discussed whether the Shallow Shaft’s proposal to amend the zoning
         ordinance to reduce lot minimum size in Base Facilities Zone C would set an undesirable precedent.
         They provided feedback and suggestions for further consideration.

         David Abraham commended their efforts in managing constraints and mentioned the desire for
         additional uses like restaurants. Concerns were raised about the aesthetics of the building and the
         delineation of zoning areas. The discussion touched upon parking, management structure, and the
         potential number of units. The importance of sustainability, electric car charging, and avalanche
         safety measures were also highlighted. Mayor Bourke inquired about the distinction between
         transient accommodations and short-term rentals, with clarification provided regarding the
         presence of kitchens in the units. Polly McLean explained the difference between residential and
         hotel use based on the presence of kitchens. Andrina Hougham emphasized that despite kitchen
         amenities, the proposal aligns with the hotel definition in the town code.

         The planning commission agreed to revisit the general plan in the next meeting to ensure
         alignment with current community needs and address concerns about zoning changes. They
         emphasized the importance of community input and collaboration in shaping the project's future
         direction. Overall, the meeting focused on gathering feedback and exploring options for the
March 26, 2025 APC Meeting Packet                                                                    Page 12 of 47

         proposed development while considering its potential impacts on the town. Andrina Hougham
         concluded the presentation by emphasizing their commitment to working with the town and
         seeking feedback before proceeding to the next steps, which may include a public hearing.

    Existing Property, Applicable Zoning

    The existing land use is an 80-seat restaurant, with an apartment in the basement used by
    employees or facility caretakers. The existing structure is 28 feet tall above the lowest adjacent
    finished grade, with at least 44 % lot coverage. The Shallow Shaft parcel is .21 acres and was
    owned by the US Forest Service until 1985, when the parcel became privately owned either
    through an exchange with the Forest Service or a sale by the Forest Service to a private buyer.

    The Shallow Shaft lot is zoned Base Facilities under Town of Alta Code 10-6D, and further defined
    as Zone C of the Base Facilities Zone (BFZ). The adjacent “Photohaus” property is the only other
    property in BFZ Zone C. The following are relevant provisions of the BFZ:

    Purpose: The purpose of the base facilities zone is to allow land to be used for retail and service
    commercial establishments and uses, together with transient accommodations uses. The base
    facilities zone is the commercial hub of the town and, as a result, no residential uses, including,
    but not limited to, condominiums and single-family residences shall be permitted within the base
    facilities zone
    Permitted Uses: Hotels, conferences, retail commercial services, storage of materials accessory
    to permitted uses, parking, parks and open spaces, and designated employee housing
    Prohibited Uses: All other uses not permitted in the BFZ (including residential uses as stated in
    10-6D-2 Purpose)
    Minimum Lot Size: 1 acre
    Minimum Lot Width: 100 feet
    Maximum Coverage: 65%
    Yard Regulations (Setbacks): Individually determined by the land use authority
    Maximum Height, Zone C: Individually determined by the land use authority

    The BFZ was last updated substantially in 2014, when provisions related to lot coverage, height,
    and other elements were amended.

    Existing Zoning Noncompliance and Nonconformity Issues

         •   The .21 acre. 95.5 foot wide Shallow Shaft parcel does not comply with the BFZ
             minimum lot size and width requirements under 10-6D-8. The adjacent Photohaus
             parcel is also below the minimum lot size and width requirement in the BFZ. The
             proposed text amendment would address this noncompliance.
         •   Public or quasi public parking has occurred on the Shallow Shaft parcel for many years
             and presumably before the property was privately owned, with up to 8 vehicles parking
             partially on private property, and partially on land within the UDOT right-of-way
             easement for SR 210. Under Town Code 10-6D-6-A, parking “as is” is allowed for existing
             uses.
         •   If the property is enlarged or increased in capacity, if there is a new land use, or if new
             construction takes place on the property, then parking requirements in the Code apply.
             As an example, Alta Town Code Chapter 10-12 requires 1 parking space per 2.5 seats or 3
             spaces per 100 feet of gross floor area; under this requirement, the 80-seat Shallow

                                                                                                           2
March 26, 2025 APC Meeting Packet                                                               Page 13 of 47


             Shaft restaurant would require at least 30 parking spaces to comply with the ordinance.
             Hotel use requires 1 space per 8 guestrooms (a guest room in the BFZ is every six
             hundred (600) square feet of total floor area within a structure, and the remainder
             thereof. ) and ½ a space for every employee living accommodation (rounded up).
             Alternatively, the BFZ parking regulation 10-6D-6-A allows for the land use authority to
             approve a parking management plan taking into consideration factors such as the
             number of guests, employees, parking space quantities and locations, etc. Current
             parking on site is included in the northside parking permit program or in the Alta
             Marshals Office “official zone.” The Town of Alta and UDOT manage snow removal in the
             parking area.
         •   Under the current code the applicants could demolish and rebuild or expand the
             structure with the same footprint, with the option to add an additional 250 gross square
             feet of floor area, per updates to ordinance 10-8-4 adopted in 2021. The Shallow Shaft
             would be permitted to tear down and rebuild a new structure with any of the permitted
             uses in the BFZ ordinance under this provision.
         •   The culvert opening on the southwest corner of the lot may be within 50’ of the current
             shallow shaft building, which would render the building noncompliant under Alta Code
             10-6D-14-G Stream Regulations.

    Revised Redevelopment Proposal

    The owners propose to develop a two-story building on top of a 5-stall parking garage in
    the basement. The proposed structure would have 51% coverage, stand 36’ above the
    lowest adjacent finished grade, and have setbacks between 5’ and 30’ from various lot
    lines. The proposed use is short-term rentals (STR) because what is being proposed are
    dwellings with kitchens, although the owners take the position that the use is consistent
    with the Town’s definition of a hotel.

    Changes to the updated proposal include:

         •    One employee housing unit added
         •    Small commercial outlet added on the ground floor, described as a coffee shop in the
              presentation
         •    5 units, whereas the previous version had somewhere between 4 and 8, depending on
              lock-out configurations
         •    Off street parking reduced from 7 to 5 (all in parking garage)

    Proposed Zoning Ordinance Text Amendment

    The property owners propose a text amendment to Town of Alta Code 10-6D-8 to reduce the
    minimum lot size in Zone C to .13 acres, and to reduce the minimum lot width to 70 feet, in
    order to mitigate both Zone C properties’ noncompliance with 10-6D-8. See page 27 “Proposed
    Text Amendment Change” in the attached presentation. The proposed text amendment would
    allow for a larger new building on a different footprint, because the parcel would meet the lot
    size and width requirements under the amended zoning ordinance.

    Problems with the Redevelopment Vision: Short-Term Rentals (not addressed)

    The owners of the Shallow Shaft argue that their development meets the Town of Alta Code
    definition of a hotel:
                                                                                                      3
March 26, 2025 APC Meeting Packet                                                                 Page 14 of 47


         Any building containing guestrooms intended or designed to be used, or which are used,
         rented or hired out to be occupied on a nightly basis, or which are occupied for sleeping
         purposes by guests, and which may include accessory facilities such as a lobby, meeting
         rooms, recreation facilities, group dining facilities and other facilities customarily
         associated with hotels. A ‘hotel’ shall not include any building used for residential
         purposes, including, but not limited to, condominiums and single-family residences.”

    However, the proposed rooms include kitchens, and as such they meet the definition of a
    dwelling unit:

         Any building or portion thereof which contains living facilities, including provisions for
         sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation, as required by this title, for not more than one
         family. For purposes of determining maximum density of dwelling units for all uses in any
         FM zone, two (2) guestrooms shall be equivalent to one dwelling unit.

    Short-term rentals are defined by the State of Utah under 10-8-85.4 as follows:

         ‘Short-term rental’ means any residential unit or any portion of a residential unit that the
         owner of record or the lessee of the residential unit offers for occupancy for fewer than
         30 consecutive days.

    The owners of the Shallow Shaft point out that a few of Alta’s hotels appear to be renting units
    with kitchens. Staff does not believe the Town has ever permitted the construction of hotel
    rooms with kitchens or kitchenettes; when the Town reviews construction plans for any
    development proposal, it analyzes floor plans and other exhibits for compliance with Town Code.
    In a hotel development proposal, rooms with kitchens would not be permitted. The Town has
    permitted employee accomodations with kitchen facilities, but these units are not counted
    toward density under the BFZ ordinance and are illegal to rent. In the meantime, short-term
    rental of dwelling units is prohibited in the BFZ under the BFZ Purpose Statement, which is listed
    above in this staff report and states explicitly that “no residential uses, including, but not limited
    to, condominiums and single-family residences shall be permitted within the base facilities zone.”

    For more information on STR as a land-use topic, click here to read a white paper on STR from
    the Utah Land Use Institute.

    Additional Problems with the Redevelopment Vision and Staff Comments on the Presentation

    Lot Size: As described above, the Shallow Shaft parcel is below the 1-acre minimum lot size and
    100-foot minimum lot width requirements in the BFZ. The proposed redevelopment
    substantially changes the footprint of the structure and appears to increase the floor area by
    more than 250 gross square feet. The purpose of the proposed text amendment addresses this
    noncompliance.

    Drainage and Waterway Setback: A large culvert exists on the southeast corner of the Shallow
    Shaft parcel. The culvert helps manage heavy runoff from spring melt and rainstorms that would
    otherwise flood or undermine SR 210. A series of additional drainage features directs water into
    the culvert from above. The culvert appears to have been installed long ago, presumably when
    the property was owned by the US Forest Service and may have been installed as early as when
    the canyon road was built. The Town has not installed any culverts and has no stormwater


                                                                                                        4
March 26, 2025 APC Meeting Packet                                                              Page 15 of 47


    management program nor any responsibility for stormwater runoff from SR 210 or the steep
    mountain slopes above Alta.

    The plan and renderings contained in the Shallow Shaft’s proposal appears to show
    improvements within 50 feet of the culvert. Town Code Section 10-6D-14-G Stream Regulations
    provides that no building, structure, improvement, or appurtenance shall be constructed, raised
    or established, the nearest point of which is within fifty feet (50’) of the high-water line of any
    Waterway, and 10-1-6 Definitions defines a culvert as a “Waterway.” Development within 50’ of
    a waterway is also prohibited under Salt Lake County Health Department Regulation 14. The
    presence of the culvert renders any area within 50’ of it non-developable, which reduces the
    density and lot coverage that would be allowed on the property if the proposed text amendment
    were adopted. The Shallow Shaft may be able to pursue relocation or modification of the culvert
    with relevant jurisdictions or property owners, but until they do so, areas within 50’ of the
    culvert are not developable and the size and lot coverage of any development would have to be
    reduced. The plans provided do not reflect this noncompliance. We cannot provide further
    analysis of the site without addressing this setback.

    Text Amendment Impacts on Building Massing: 10-6D-11 provides that “Maximum Coverage”
    “for the aggregate of all buildings, structures, graded surfaces, paved areas, overhangs,
    driveways, decks, parking areas and walkways shall be 65% of the gross lot area. If the text
    amendment was approved, any new proposal would be permitted so long as it covered 65% of
    the gross lot area or less. This would allow for larger or more massive buildings on those
    properties which would affect the look, feel, and social dynamics of the neighborhood, which is
    not necessarily positive or negative.

    Minimum Lot Size and Width Requirements in General and in Alta: Lot size and width
    requirements are common regulations in municipal zoning ordinances. They are a primary
    mechanism to regulate density, the look and feel of neighborhoods and communities, and the
    social intensity of a given land use, which can affect demand for municipal services and parking,
    vehicular and pedestrian traffic and circulation, environmental impacts, and other factors.

    The smallest minimum lot size allowed in any Town of Alta Zoning District is ½ acre, in the
    Peruvian Estates Zone. The minimum lot size in Alta’s commercial zone has always been 1
    contiguous acre, which the Town of Alta inherited from Salt Lake County upon incorporation in
    1970.

    Changing the minimum lot size in BFZ Zone C could be considered “spot zoning,” which is when
    zoning regulations are narrowly tailored to a single property or other small number of
    properties.

    If the proposed text amendment were granted it would apply to both properties in the “C” zone
    of the BFZ. Therefore, the adjacent Photohaus property, which is a lot less than 2. acres, would
    also be permitted to expand to 65% lot coverage of the lot under this amendment.

    Building Frontage Along SR 210: The front of the building including the parking garage entrance
    appears to directly abut UDOT’s easement for SR 210. The presentation indicates UDOT has
    reviewed the proposal and provided feedback. The Town will need a more formal indication of
    UDOT permission for this frontage plan if the proposal moves forward.


                                                                                                      5
March 26, 2025 APC Meeting Packet                                                             Page 16 of 47


    Employee Housing: Page 29 of the presentation describes that “affordable employee housing”
    supports “workforce stability and retention.” The employee unit included in the proposal would
    be required to be used for onsite employees of the facility and not otherwise rented on a long-
    term basis. Having this unit would meet the requirement of the code for employee housing 10-
    6D-7 which requires living accommodations for one employee.

    Coffee Shop: The proposed coffee shop or café would add a food and beverage opportunity in
    the SR-210 corridor and the center of Alta’s Commercial Core, where such opportunities are
    limited. Such a use would maintain some of the public-facing character of the Shallow Shaft
    restaurant. Parking would need to be added on-site for however many seats are available in the
    coffee shop, unless an exception is granted under 10-12-2 B or 10-6D-6.

    Drainage: The presentation makes various claims about responsibility for stormwater
    management and the placement of various stormwater management infrastructure. To be clear,
    the Town has no responsibility for storm water management along SR 210. The Town has never
    installed culverts. The Town assumes the culverts on and near the Shallow Shaft property were
    installed by UDOT or the US Forest Service to manage erosion and stormwater impacts to SR 210
    and the lowest segment of the Michigan City Road, which intersects with SR 210 adjacent to the
    Shallow Shaft and crosses between the Shallow Shaft and the Town Office/Alta Central complex
    before switchbacking to the north and east behind Alta Central. The Town considers UDOT to be
    responsible for storm water management along SR 210. The property is required to manage the
    storm water which runs on to, from and through the property.

    Avalanche Hazard Design Challenges: 10-7-22 Avalanche Hazard Review requires building permit
    applicants to define and analyze a “100-year avalanche” event and design the building to
    withstand and project human life from such an event. On properties with significant exposure to
    avalanches, designing to this requirement is a primary driver of design strategy and construction
    costs and can render projects infeasible, and the Town encourages property owners to evaluate
    avalanche hazard early in any design process. Various avalanche studies have shown significant
    avalanches originating on Flagstaff Shoulder and Flagstaff face affecting nearby properties. The
    presentation refers to building design features related to avalanche hazard. However, the
    building appears to be significantly above-grade, which other nearby buildings designed to
    satisfy 10-7-22 are generally not, because studies indicate the flow of a design avalanche in the
    vicinity the Shallow Shaft can exert thousands of pounds per square foot of impact pressure and
    loading. Building elements that can resist these forces are extremely expensive or even
    technically infeasible in some locations. This is not a zoning issue, but avalanche hazard on the
    site could render the proposed building undesirable or technically infeasible for any owner to
    develop. The proposal will be required to have an avalanche study and meet structural
    requirements based on that study.

    Additional Note on the Photohaus

    The Photohaus was originally built as a mixed residential and commercial property on a US
    Forest Service special use permit, prior to the Town of Alta’s incorporation. Both the Shallow
    Shaft and the Photohaus either purchased their land from the US Forest Service or participated
    in a land exchange with the agency. The owners of the Photohaus rent the residential dwellings
    in the building as short-term rentals. The Photohaus is zoned Base Facilities Zone C, like the
    Shallow Shaft. The Town has found the residential uses in the Photohaus grandfathered

                                                                                                     6
March 26, 2025 APC Meeting Packet                                                             Page 17 of 47


    nonconforming uses. The Photohaus was substantially remodeled in the past decade, but prior
    to the recent amendment to the Town of Alta nonconforming use and noncomplying structure
    ordinance allowing limited tear-down and rebuild, and neither dimensions, coverage, or uses of
    the building changed.

    Next Steps

    Staff does not recommend consideration of the proposed text amendment until the owners of
    the Shallow Shaft return with a proposal that complies with the allowed uses and requirements
    of the BFZ. They need to either remove area within 50’ of the culvert from the developable area
    on their property and meet the requirements related to the mass and density of the proposed
    building with that setback, or work with relevant jurisdictions and landowners to identify an
    alternative stormwater management plan that resolves the need for a culvert opening in that
    location. Staff does not recommend permitting short-term rentals or hotel rooms with kitchens
    without deliberate analysis and public process most likely in the context of an update to the
    Town of Alta General Plan and any amendments to Town Code that would be required to
    regulate these uses. Although the current proposal is closer to meeting the code than the
    proposal a year ago, it still does not comply and due to the failure to address the setbacks from
    the waterway/culvert and the room configuration (i.e. apartments), Staff cannot give any further
    meaningful analysis.




                                                                                                    7
The Shallow Shaft Property Redevelopment
   March 26, 2025 APC Meeting Packet       Page 18 of 47
               Meeting Purpose & Key Updates
     March 26, 2025 APC Meeting Packet                                             Page 19 of 47




Purpose of the Meeting:
•     Review modifications made in response to Planning Commission (PC)
    feedback from March 2024 and from November 2024 meeting with Town.
•     Present an updated proposal that aligns with Zone C’s practical realities.
•     Obtain additional feedback before a formal submission.


Key Updates Based on PC and Town Feedback:
•                                                      Ag
      Employee housing added – affordable workforce housing.
•     Coffee shop added to enhance community amenities.
•     Room count reduced from 8 to 5 for a more compact design.
•     Parking entrance adjusted to meet UDOT requirements; interior parking
    reduced from 8 to 5 spaces.
•     Snow melt water management solution to ensure environmental
    sustainability.
      Text Amendment & Request to the PC
     March 26, 2025 APC Meeting Packet                                              Page 20 of 47




Proposal Still Includes:
•     Text amendment to align lot size and width requirements with the practical
    constraints of Zone C properties.
•     A solution for better utilization of the property while maintaining the
    integrity of Zone C and preserving Alta’s unique environment.


Request to the Planning Commission:
•                                                        Ag
      Consideration of a fair, problem-solving approach, similar to past
    solutions provided for other Alta properties in residential and base facility
    zones.
•     Feedback on the revised proposal before proceeding with formal
    submission.
                             Our Community Presence
          March 26, 2025 APC Meeting Packet              Page 21 of 47




Our Longstanding Presence in Alta

•   The Shallow Shaft – A Part of Alta Since 1956
      • Originally built as a ski shop, now restaurant
         and apartment.

•   38 Years of Family Investment in Alta
      • Purchased by Walter Krebsbach in 1986.
      • Ongoing support for local organizations and
         lodges (Alta Historical Society, Alta Art
         Council, Friends of Alta, Snowpine, Alta and
         Rustler Lodges).

•   Why We’re Here Today:
     • Alta has changed significantly over the past
        38 years.
     • Stand-alone dining is no longer economically
        viable.
     • Our proposal aims to adapt to these changes
        while preserving the character of Alta.
    March 26, 2025 APC Meeting Packet                                       Page 22 of 47
                                        Agenda
Goal: Present our refined vision for the Shallow Shaft property based on
Planning Commission / Town feedback.

Overview:
•    Replace outdated structure with a modern, sustainable design.
•    Reorient the building to better utilize the site.
•    Ensure full code compliance.
•    Focus on health, safety, and sustainability.
•    Repurpose restaurant and apartment into transient accommodations
consistent with Base Facilities Zone purpose and permitted hotel use.
                                                            Ag
Visuals: Site maps, updated exterior view, and interior design concepts.

Text Amendment Recommendation

Respond to relevant items cited in the March X, 2025, Staff Report to the
Alta Planning Commission.

Next Steps: Discuss final refinements before moving forward with a formal
application.
    March 26, 2025 APC Meeting Packet                                                    Page 23 of 47

Base Facilities Zone & Hotel Use Compliance
  Purpose: 10-6D-2 Alta Town Code

  The purpose of the base facilities zone is to allow land to be used for retail
  and service commercial establishments and uses, together with transient
  accommodations uses. The base facilities zone is the commercial hub of the
  town and, as a result, no residential uses, including, but not limited to,
  condominiums and single-family residences shall be permitted within the base
  facilities zone. (Ord. 2008-O-7, 6-12-2008)


  Permitted use Hotel: 10-6D-4 Alta Town Code


  Definitions: 10-1-6 Alta Town Code
  Hotel: Any building containing guestrooms intended or designed to be used, or
  which are used, rented or hired out to be occupied on a nightly basis, or
  which are occupied for sleeping purposes by guests, and which may include
  accessory facilities such as a lobby, meeting rooms, recreation facilities, group
  dining facilities and other facilities customarily associated with hotels. A “hotel”
  shall not include any building for residential purposes, including but not limited
  to, condominiums and single-family residences.


  Our proposed redevelopment is fully aligned with the purpose
  and permitted uses of the Base Facilities Zone
Hotels suites with kitchens are ubiquitous
        March 26, 2025 APC Meeting Packet                                                  Page 24 of 47




including in Alta                                                        Snowpine Penthouse Kitchen




Snowpine Lodge https://www.snowpine.com/lodging/rooms-
suites/?accommodation=penthouse
•   2 Bedroom Penthouse
•   Kitchen with dining area – “The penthouse features a fully
    equipped gourmet kitchen, perfect for those who love to indulge in
    their culinary desires.”

Rustler Lodge https://www.rustlerlodge.com/rooms_owners_studio.php
        Owner’s Studio
• King Bed and Queen Sofa Bed
• Kitchen and dining area
March 26, 2025 APC Meeting Packet               Page 25 of 47




                                    Site Maps
Site Survey
       March 26, 2025 APC Meeting Packet   Page 26 of 47




•   Property surveyed
    31 October 2013
•   Property boundary
    lines extend to the
    shoulder of Hwy
    210
Overlay of site survey on aerial view
            March 26, 2025 APC Meeting Packet   Page 27 of 47




Parking / Northwest back corner


•   Survey confirms that 4–5 full
    spaces and 3 partial spaces are
    located on the Shallow Shaft
    property.
•   Historically, this area has been
    used for parking without formal
    recognition of private property
    boundaries.
•   Town signage ("Authorized
    Vehicle Only") was placed on
    our property, indicating that the
    town has regulated parking in this
    area.
•   Winter North Side parking is
    also within Shallow Shaft property
    boundaries.
March 26, 2025 APC Meeting Packet                  Page 28 of 47




                                Proposal Concept
          March 26, 2025 APC Meeting Packet   Page 29 of 47

Site View of New Structure
Improved Location:
•   Moved away from forest road for
    improved safety.
•   Opens green space between
    buildings, reducing crowding.


Efficient Land Use:
• Building oriented to fit lot shape
    efficiently.
•   Optimized solar exposure for
    better energy efficiency.
•   Includes covered parking for
    functionality and safety.


Architectural Alignment:
• Design inspired by existing
    Shallow Shaft building
•   Blends seamlessly with the
    natural beauty of Alta.
             March 26, 2025 APC Meeting Packet             Page 30 of 47

                                        Proposal Concept

Thoughtful Design & Land Use
•   Lower level: Covered parking garage.
•   Second & third levels: Five hotel
    units.
•   Roof designed to support safe snow
    storage & runoff management.


Health, Safety & Sustainability Focus
•   Meets up-to-date code
    requirements.
•   Safe egress from living quarters.
•   Renewable energy sources (solar
    panels)—aiming for zero external
    energy consumption.
          March 26, 2025 APC Meeting Packet             Page 31 of 47

                                     Proposal Concept

Parking Solutions & Community Benefits
• Parking garage incorporates UDOT
   feedback.
•   Electric vehicle (EV) charging
    stations to support sustainability.
•   Potential dedicated parking for town
    use, improving community access.


Sustainable & Resilient Design
• Green roof to enhance insulation and
  reduce environmental impact.
•   High-performance building
    envelope—exceeds energy code
    requirements for insulation and sealing.
•   Designed to resist avalanches – can
    be used during inter-lodge
March 26, 2025 APC Meeting Packet      Page 32 of 47




        Interior Designs / Set Backs
         March 26, 2025 APC Meeting Packet                Page 33 of 47
                                    Basement Floor Plan
Key Features of the Basement Floor Plan

Parking & Accessibility:
•   Garage entrance with 5 covered
    parking spaces
•   Elevator – ensures ADA room access
•   Stairs for alternate access

Guest & Operational Spaces:
• Check-in/Lobby area for arrivals
• Coffee Shop
• Ski Storage Area for guest convenience
• Laundry Room for housekeeping
  operations

Support & Infrastructure:
• Mechanical Room for essential building
   systems
• Bathroom for staff/guest use
        Level One Floor Plan – Key Features
          March 26, 2025 APC Meeting Packet   Page 34 of 47




Employee Housing included for
workforce support.


Three hotel units designed for flexibility
and guest convenience.


•   King Suite: Bedroom, Bathroom,
    Kitchen / Living Area.
•   Standard Room: Bedroom,
    Bathroom (can be adjoined to King
    Suite).
•   Standard Room: Bedroom,
    Bathroom.
                  Level Two Floor Plan – Key Features
          March 26, 2025 APC Meeting Packet             Page 35 of 47




Two hotel units designed for guest
flexibility


•   King Suite: Bedroom, Bathroom,
    Kitchen / Living Area
•   Standard Room: Bedroom,
    Bathroom (can be adjoined to King
    Suite)
      March 26, 2025 APC Meeting Packet    Page 36 of 47
                 Coverage/Setback of New
                        Structure
Existing Building

• Slope – 16%
• Coverage – 44%
• Height ~ 28 ft

New Structure
• Slope – 16%
• Coverage - 51%
• Height – 35 ft

New Structure Setbacks
• Back – 35’
• West – 7’-5”
• East – 5’
• Front – 3’- 6”
March 26, 2025 APC Meeting Packet                Page 37 of 47




                            Culvert Management
Current stormwater flow issues
        March 26, 2025 APC Meeting Packet          Page 38 of 47




How water reaches the Shallow Shaft
property

•   Stormwater from surrounding
    infrastructure: Upper Guard Road, the
    Alta Town Office and near by areas flows
    toward culvert inlet approximately 19’
    from town office.

•   Water is carried underground to a culvert
    outlet and sandbags route water to the
    culvert inlet on the Shallow Shaft property.

•   Additional surface runoff from Hwy 210,
    is directed by sandbags into the culvert on
    Shallow Shaft property.

•   Water flows under the highway and exits
    on the south side of the road.
Culvert Discussion Points
      March 26, 2025 APC Meeting Packet                                          Page 39 of 47




Stormwater outside of the Shallow Shaft Property is being diverted onto
Shallow Shaft property
• From culvert outlet below the Town Office
• From the Highway 210

Unaware of recorded easement granting the town the right to manage /
direct stormwater onto Shallow Shaft property.

Discussions with Salt Lake County Public Works indicated that
stormwater management is the responsibility of the Town of Alta.

Potential solutions:
• Relocate the culvert off Shallow Shaft property since it is not required for
  on-site stormwater management. Would eliminate the 50-ft set back
  restriction on the property.
• Keep the culvert but stop diverting water onto Shallow Shaft Property.
  Eliminate the 50-ft set back restriction on the property as culvert is no
  longer a waterway.
• Collaborate with the Town of Alta on a revised stormwater solutions.
• Other potential options?
    Proposed Stormwater Management Solution
          March 26, 2025 APC Meeting Packet   Page 40 of 47




A better approach to storm water control
•   Stormwater catch basin at the
    Southeast corner to collect uphill
    runoff from Hwy 210.
•   Trench drain at the building and
    garage entrance
•   New stormwater catch basin added to
    existing culvert


Water flow path:
• Water moves from the catch basin (32’-
  11” from the Southwest corner of
  Shallow Shaft) under the highway.
•   Redirected flow eliminates reliance on
    sandbags and unmanaged run off.
•   This solution removes the 50ft set
    back requirement, while also improving
    stormwater control.
Proposed Culvert Management
      March 26, 2025 APC Meeting Packet   Page 41 of 47




 Flood Control Engineering map
 received from Salt Lake County
 shows no flood control concerns
 around the Alta Town office or
 the Shallow Shaft
March 26, 2025 APC Meeting Packet          Page 42 of 47




                   Zone C Text Amendment
         Proposed Text Amendment Change
     March 26, 2025 APC Meeting Packet                                                                               Page 43 of 47




Current Code
10-6D-8: LOT AREA, LOT WIDTH AND SLOPE REQUIREMENTS:
Construction of any building, structure or improvements shall not be permitted where       Zone C Properties
any of the following conditions exist:
 A. The lot area is less than one net developable acre in size; or
                                                                                           • Shallow Shaft
 B. The slope exceeds thirty percent (30%); or
                                                                                                Acres:     0.21
  C. The width of the lot shall be less than one hundred feet (100'). (Ord. 2008-O-7, 6-
12-2008)
                                                                                                Lot width: 95.5 ft

Proposed Code Change                                                                       • Photohaus
10-6D-8: LOT AREA, LOT WIDTH AND SLOPE REQUIREMENTS:                                           Acres:     0.13
Construction of any building, structure or improvements shall not be permitted where
any of the following conditions exist:
                                                                                               Lot width: 70.65 ft
  A. The lot area is less than one net developable acre in size for Zone A and Zone B;
or less that 0.13 net developable acre in size for Zone C
 B. The slope exceeds thirty percent (30%); or
 C. The width of the lot shall be less than seventy feet (70’).

This code change applies only to Zone C and
allows non-conforming properties to become
conforming.
March 26, 2025 APC Meeting Packet       Page 44 of 47




      How This Proposal Supports Alta
    Addressing Town Needs & Community Priorities
         March 26, 2025 APC Meeting Packet                                          Page 45 of 47




Incorporating Planning Commission & Community Feedback
•   Affordable employee housing to support workforce stability and retention.
•   Café space adds a valuable community gathering spot.
•   Culvert management plan improves stormwater control & safety.


Environmentally Conscious Development
•   Designed to blend with Alta’s natural beauty for minimal visual impact.
•   Energy-efficient insulation & solar panels to promote sustainability.


Improved Snow & Traffic Management
•   Covered parking reduces congestion, making snow removal more efficient.
•   Potential to provide a designated parking space for the Town of Alta Sheriff,
    improving emergency response access.
         Economic & Community Benefits for Alta
          March 26, 2025 APC Meeting Packet                                          Page 46 of 47




Expanding Visitor Accommodations
•   Creates new transient lodging options that fit Alta’s tourism-driven economy.
•   ADA accessibility ensures inclusivity for all visitors.


Economic Growth & Increased Revenue
•   Increases property tax and sales revenue, helping fund town infrastructure and
    services.
•   Boosts tourist spending, including:
           a) Lift ticket sales from guests staying in Alta.
           b) On-mountain dining and retail purchases at ski resorts.
           c) Local business support for ski rentals and gear shops
March 26, 2025 APC Meeting Packet                     Page 47 of 47




                     Next Steps: Formal application
