      MAYOR                                                                          TOWN OF ALTA
   ROGER BOURKE                                                                       P.O. BOX 8016
                                                                                    ALTA, UTAH 84092
   TOWN COUNCIL
   CAROLYN ANCTIL                                                                   TEL (801) 363-5105
     JOHN BYRNE                                                                       (801) 742-3522
    ELISE MORGAN                                                                    FAX (801)742-1006
    DAN SCHILLING                                                                        TTY 711




April 11, 2025
Dear Alta Community,
Since learning of the Diocese of Salt Lake City’s intent to divest the Our Lady of the Snow Center
(OLS), the Town has been considering the public benefits and concerns related to purchasing or
not purchasing the building.
The process for a government entity to purchase real estate is purposely designed to be
deliberate and methodical. Utah law allows discussions regarding real estate to be conducted in
a closed meeting to preserve the Town’s negotiating advantage. The council met in a closed
meeting, reached consensus, and directed staff to explore the purchase of OLS as a beneficial
option for long-term and continued use by the community. The Town met with representatives
of the Diocese and discussed the potential for the Town to purchase OLS. Late on April 9, 2025,
the Diocese informed the Town that it intended to pursue a sale of OLS to the Town.
Ultimately the Council’s decision on whether to purchase property can only occur at an open
public meeting. The Town recognizes that this is a very emotional issue because of what OLS
and Alta Community Enrichment mean to the community. We appreciate your comments and
opinions and will hold a public meeting to take public input on Tuesday, April 15th at 2:00 PM at
the Alta Community Center. The decision whether to purchase the property will only occur
after a vote of the Town Council in a future public meeting, and the council will not take official
action at the April 15th meeting.
A significant factor in our decision-making is our special relationship with ACE. Regardless of the
future ownership of OLS, the Town remains committed to supporting ACE’s mission and
ensuring its continued success within the community.
The Council welcomes public comment regarding the potential purchase of OLS at the April 15th
meeting.
Sincerely,




Roger Bourke, Mayor
