                                                                                         Page 1 of 86
      MAYOR                                                                        TOWN OF ALTA
   ROGER BOURKE                                                                     P.O. BOX 8016
                                                                                  ALTA, UTAH 84092
  TOWN COUNCIL
  CAROLYN ANCTIL                                                                  TEL (801) 363-5105
    JOHN BYRNE                                                                      (801) 742-3522
   DAN SCHILLING                                                                  FAX (801)742-1006
   ELISE MORGAN                                                                         TTY 711




                     Alta Planning Commission Meeting Packet
                                    July 15, 2025
Document Tips: The sections below are each hyperlinked to help you navigate straight to a section
of interest. Page numbers refer to the header numbers on the top right of the page in blue.


Table of Contents
2-3            Agenda

4 - 12         Draft March 26, 2025 Meeting Minutes

13 - 22        Staff Report: Shrontz Estate Rezone

23 - 48        Petition to Rezone Request

49 – 64        Presentation: Shrontz Estate Proposal for Patsey Marley Hill Property

65 – 81        Aqua Engineering Drinking Water Memo

82 – 84        Division of Drinking Water Approval

85 – 86        SLC Department of Public Utilities Consent to Petition to Rezone
                                                                                                                                       Page 2 of 86
                MAYOR                                                                                                        TOWN OF ALTA
             ROGER BOURKE                                                                                                     P.O. BOX 8016
                                                                                                                            ALTA, UTAH 84092
            TOWN COUNCIL
            CAROLYN ANCTIL                                                                                                  TEL (801) 363-5105
              JOHN BYRNE                                                                                                      (801) 742-3522
             ELISE MORGAN                                                                                                   FAX (801)742-1006
             DAN SCHILLING                                                                                                        TTY 711




                                                               AGENDA
                                                  ALTA PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
                                                   WEDNESDAY JULY 15th, 2025 3:00 PM
                                                        ALTA COMMUNITY CENTER
                                                              ALTA, UTAH

 We encourage you to join us in person. This will be a hybrid meeting. For information about how to view the
              meeting online, please visit https://townofalta.utah.gov/events/ or watch live
                                  https://townofalta.utah.gov/live-stream/

            Public comment - please note, each person will be able to speak for up to 3 minutes.
  Written public input can be submitted in advance to Chris Cawley via email (ccawley@townofalta.utah.gov)
                   To make a public comment virtually we recommend notifying Molly Austin via email
                               (molly@townofalta.utah.gov) in advance of the meeting.

             1  Call the Public Hearing to Order
             2  Accept Public Comment regarding the petition to rezone 6.5 acres of land located on parcel 30-
                04-101-014-0000 from FR-1 to FM-20
             3 Motion to Adjourn Public Hearing
             4 Call the regular meeting to order
             5 Public comment
             6 Approval of the minutes of the March 26, 2025 meeting
             7 Discussion and Possible Action on the petition to rezone 6.5 acres of land located on parcel 30-
                04-101-014-0000 from FR-1 to FM-20
             8 New business
             9 Date of next meeting
             10 Motion to adjourn

Notice Provisions:
     •    Motions relating to any of the foregoing including final action may be taken at the meeting.
     •    One or more members of the Alta Planning Commission may attend by electronic means, including telephonically. Such members may fully participate in
          the proceedings as if physically present. The anchor location for purposes of the electronic meeting is the ALTA COMMUNITY CENTER, 10361 EAST HWY
          210, ALTA, UTAH
     •    Reasonable accommodation (including auxiliary communicative aids and services) for individuals with disabilities may be provided upon receipt of a
          request with three (3) working days’ notice. For assistance, please call the Alta Town Office at 801-363-5105
Page 3 of 86
                                                                                      Page 4 of 86




                                  MEETING MINUTES
                        ALTA PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
                           Wednesday, March 26, 2025, 3:00 PM
                   Alta Community Center, 10351 E. Highway 210, Alta, Utah


ALTA PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING – 3:00 PM

PRESENT:                Jon Nepstad, Chair (joined virtually)
                        Jeff Niermeyer, Vice-Chair
                        Rob Voye
                        David Abraham (joined virtually at 3:09)
                        Maren Askins
                        Roger Bourke, Town of Alta Mayor

STAFF PRESENT: Chris Cawley, Town Manager
               Molly Austin, Assistant Town Manager
               Polly McLean, Town Attorney

ALSO PRESENT:           John Guldner, Cottonwood Lands Advisory (joined virtually)

NOT PRESENT:


    1. INTRODUCTION AND WELCOME FROM THE CHAIR

Planning Commission Chair Jon Nepstad opened the March 26, 2025 meeting at 3:03 PM.


    2. PUBLIC COMMENT

No public comments received.

    3. APPROVAL OF MINUTES FROM THE FEBRUARY 26, 2025, MEETING

Jon Nepstad noted that earlier today Molly Austin sent out a few minor clarifying edits to the
version of the minutes that were originally sent out in the packet. At the top of page 3, the
language was updated to clarify the Shrontz Estate’s proposed new width of the Albion Basin
Summer Road, and on page 4 the minutes were clarified to read that the Estate received an email,
rather than a letter, from Salt Lake City Department of Public Utilties (SLCDPU) demonstrating
SLCDPU’s consent for the Estate to move forward with the Shrontz Estate’s new development
concept.

Rob Voye moved to approve the minutes from the February 26, 2025 meeting, as amended. Jeff
Niermeyer seconded. All in favor and minutes approved.


Alta Planning Commission Meeting Minutes
March 26, 2025                                                                                  1
                                                                                         Page 5 of 86




    4. PRESENTATION AND DISCUSSION: SHALLOW SHAFT REDEVELOPMENT
       PROPOSAL

Chris Cawley described that the purpose of the meeting is to discuss an updated redevelopment
concept from the owners of the Shallow Shaft Restaurant, that was previously discussed in April
2024. The primary topic for discussion is a proposed text amendment to the Base Facilities Zone
(BFZ) to increase the minimum lot size and width requirements on properties subject to BFZ
Zone C, which would affect the Shallow Shaft and Photohaus properties. Cawley described that
with this new proposal, the size of the building and total number of units inside have changed,
but he expressed that from the Town’s perspective, there are still some concerns with non-
compliance issues such as hotel rooms with kitchens, which meet the Town’s definition of a
“dwelling unit. Dwellings and other residential which are prohibited in the Base Facility Zone.
Another issue with the proposed building is that it is within 50 feet of a culvert.

Jon Nepstad requested that the Planning Commission members hold any questions until the very
end of the presentation.

Andrina Hougham introduced herself and her husband, Walter Krebsbach, as owners of the
Shallow Shaft restaurant. Hougham explained that they are back with a new proposal after taking
into consideration the feedback received from the Planning Commission from the previous one
presented last year. She said that it is their goal to develop something that both the Town and the
owners can feel proud of.

Hougham summarized the key updates to the proposal from the previous one:
      • Employee housing added
      • Coffee shop added as a community amenity/gathering space
      • Reduced the number of rooms from 8 to 5
      • Adjusted parking structure entrance and size
      • Redesign building for avalanche safety
      • Snow melt management system added

Andrina Hougham stated that they are still requesting a text amendment to align lot size and
width requirements with the practical constraints of Zone C. She stated that feedback on the
revised proposal is requested before proceeding with a formal submission.

Hougham then provided an overview of the refined vision for the Shallow Shaft property,
summarizing their goals with the new proposal:

        •   Replace outdated structure with a modern, sustainable design
        •   Reorient the building to better utilize the site
        •   Ensure full code compliance
        •   Focus on health, safety, and sustainability
        •   Repurpose the restaurant and apartment into transient accommodations consistent
            with BFZ purpose and permitted hotel use



Alta Planning Commission Meeting Minutes
March 26, 2025                                                                                     2
                                                                                           Page 6 of 86




Hougham provided some background information on the involvement that the Shallow Shaft has
had in the Alta Community for the past 38 years. She emphasized that Alta is a part of the fabric
of her family, just like it is to many other families.

Proposal Overview

Hougham said that the proposed use for the building would be a hotel, stating that transient
accommodation and uses are permitted within the BFZ. Hougham stated that they are not
proposing short-term rentals, but they believe their proposal fits under the definition of a hotel as
defined in Town of Alta code. The proposed building would not include residential units or
condominiums.

Hougham then addressed the inclusion of rooms with kitchens in the proposal, sharing that there
is evidence of 3 of the lodges in Alta that are already renting hotel rooms with kitchens.

Hougham described a site survey that Walter Krebsbach had completed to determine the
property boundary in 2013. She noted that the results of the survey indicate that there has been
parking regulated by the Town of Alta on Shallow Shaft property without formal recognition of
the private property boundary.

Roger Bourke inquired about the location of the culvert. Hougham described that the culvert is
on their property and runs under the road.

Hougham described the proposed site location compared to the current building, stating that the
new concept would move the building away from the road and open more green space between
the surrounding buildings. The new site also optimizes solar exposure for increased energy
efficiency. The design is inspired by the current design of the Shallow Shaft building.

Hougham then detailed the proposal concept, highlighting the following features:
      • Lower level:
            o Covered parking garage with 5 parking spaces, that incorporates UDOT
                feedback and includes an EV charging station
            o Coffee shop & bathrooms
            o Lobby and check-in area
            o Hotel support spaces such as laundry and mechanical
      • Level 1
            o Employee housing for workforce support
            o 3 hotel units
      • Level 2
            o 2 hotel units
      • Solar Panels and green roof to enhance insulation and reduce environmental impact

Hougham then compared the size of the proposed new structure to that of the current building,
noting that the site coverage would increase from 44% to 51% and the height would increase
from 28 feet to 35 feet.



Alta Planning Commission Meeting Minutes
March 26, 2025                                                                                       3
                                                                                        Page 7 of 86




Culvert Management

A conversation then took place regarding the existing culvert and stormwater management. Alta
Code 10-6D-14 (G) states that no building may be constructed within 50’ of a waterway. There
was some discussion and disagreement about responsibility for stormwater management and
whether various waterways were natural or artificial. Representatives of the Shallow Shaft
believe that the culvert is part of an artificial stormwater management system and that it can be
relocated or deemed unnecessary by diverting off-site storm water elsewhere. The Town of Alta
asserts that the water that flows through the culvert is part of a natural drainage channel, and
water would flow through the property with or without the culvert, maintaining that the
waterway would exist naturally on the Shallow Shaft property and the proposed building would
not meet the 50’ setback requirements.

Hougham presented a few ideas to mitigate the culvert dilemma, but ultimately it was established
that the Planning Commission has no authority over the code requirements on this issue, so the
culvert is immaterial for the purposes of this meeting. Hougham expressed the desire to work
with the Town to find a solution, but it is difficult due to lack of documentation and information
on the history of the culvert.

Proposed Text Amendment Change

Andrina Hougham detailed the proposed text amendment, stating that it would reduce the
minimum lot size from 1 to less than 0.13 net developable acres in Zone C of the BFZ. This
proposed amendment would allow non-conforming properties to become conforming.

Jeff Niermeyer pointed out that “bullet point C” of the proposed text amendment doesn’t specify
that it is only applying to Zone C and should be updated. Hougham concurred that this was an
error on their part that would be corrected.

Community Benefits

Hougham concluded her presentation by highlighting some of the benefits they feel their
proposal would contribute to Alta:

    •   Affordable employee housing
    •   Coffee shop as community gathering spot
    •   An environmentally conscious design with minimal visual impact
    •   Creation of new transient lodging option with ADA accessible units
    •   Increased property and sales tax revenue

Discussion

Jeff Niermeyer asked if the culvert and drainage systems were installed before or after they
purchased the property. Hougham and Krebsbach noted that to the best of their knowledge that
infrastructure had been in place when they purchased it, and further clarified that they don’t
believe a culvert of that size is required to manage water on their property.

Alta Planning Commission Meeting Minutes
March 26, 2025                                                                                      4
                                                                                        Page 8 of 86




Roger Bourke asked for some clarification on the culvert alternatives. Hougham described the
following options:
                         1. Relocate the culvert off the Shallow Shaft property
                         2. Keep the culvert, but stop diverting off-site water through it
                         3. Explore additional alternatives to meet the 50’ setback
                            requirements

Jeff Niermeyer asked if it was known how deep the culvert is under Michigan City Road. Chris
Cawley noted it is not very deep, estimated at between 1 and 2 feet. Niermeyer considered the
possibility of adding infrastructure under the Michigan City Road to help manage runoff.

Cawley clarified that the area of the road in question is owned by the USFS, so the Town has
authority to do such a project.

Jon Nepstad asked Polly MacLean for her opinion. Polly clarified that this is an inherent issue
with the property, and is not something the Planning Commission or Town Council can address.
McLean further noted that it is not only the Alta Town code, but SLCDPU also has prohibitions
against building within 50 feet of a waterway.

David Abraham agreed that the stormwater management issue is not for the Planning
Commission to figure out. He then noted the changes made to the overall proposal that
incorporated feedback from previous meetings, which was appreciated. Abraham asked about the
presence of a window in the employee housing unit. Hougham confirmed that the design does
include an above-grade window.

Polly noted that having an employee housing unit is a requirement for new construction, and this
design meets the requirement of 1 employee unit per 5 guest rooms.

Hougham pointed out that the Town Office is located within 19’ of a culvert, not 50’ and that the
building was built after the culvert was installed. Polly McLean noted that the existing Shallow
Shaft building is also not 50’ away from the waterway and they would be allowed to rebuild on
the current footprint with up to a 250 square foot expansion.

Maren Askins asked if the use would have to remain the same, and McLean noted that they could
apply any allowed use in that zone.

John Guldner emphasized that culvert installation occurred prior to ownership of current
properties by either Town of Alta or the Shallow Shaft, and it was all USFS property. He
reiterated the Town’s belief that this is a natural water drainage pathway, and the culverts were
installed to mitigate erosion of what is now known as the Michigan City Road as well as SR 210.

David Abraham noted that, in his mind, the only remaining question to be discussed is
understanding the definition of a hotel.




Alta Planning Commission Meeting Minutes
March 26, 2025                                                                                    5
                                                                                           Page 9 of 86




Jeff Niermeyer highlighted the three constraints that need to be resolved before moving forward,
given current Town of Alta ordinances:

    1. Proximity to a waterway
    2. Kitchens in a hotel room
    3. Minimum lot size requirement

Polly McLean noted that the Town is looking into whether hotels in Alta are renting rooms with
kitchens which may qualify as residential uses, but that none have been approved under the
current code which specifies that no residential uses are permitted. By definition in Town Code,
a residential use is defined as a “dwelling” that includes a kitchen. McLean offered the
comparison of a speed limit, stating that if one gets pulled over for speeding and the next car
drives by going faster, it doesn’t resolve one’s violation of the speed limit. She thanked
Hougham for bringing this issue to the Town and reiterated that they are looking into it.

Hougham emphasized that she feels like their proposal fits under the definition of a hotel – as
nothing in the provided definition prohibits kitchens explicitly. McLean disagreed with that
assessment and recognized that this is not the appropriate arena to dive into those specifics.

Jeff Niermeyer inquired about the intended ownership of the building. Hougham clarified that
there is no intent to sell any portion of the building, and it will remain family owned.

Maren Askins asked about the management plan for the proposed building. Hougham stated that
they are in conversation with Alta Chalets to provide management services, with the included
employee unit intended to house an on-site employee, although the details have yet to be
determined. Askins noted that a hotel requires a number of employees and departments to
provide the level of service she would expect at a hotel, while recognizing that is not a legal
requirement.

Jon Nepstad noted that perhaps we could use some clarification on what defines a kitchen – as
there is a wide range of kitchen amenities that could be provided. David Abraham believes that
the design as presented constitutes a kitchen, and he is more concerned about ensuring that the
entire parcel will remain under single ownership and units won’t be subdivided.

Nepstad noted that another characteristic to consider is laundry facilities, noting that he has never
stayed in a hotel that includes in-room laundry. Hougham clarified that there is one shared
laundry facility in the proposed building that is intended to be used primarily for hotel
housekeeping use, but didn’t rule out the possibility of allowing guests to use it for personal use.

Niermeyer noted the need to conduct an avalanche study to ensure the proposed building would
be designed appropriately. This need has been acknowledged by Shallow Shaft ownership, and it
was noted that they would conduct such a study once the intended use and design of the building
was finalized. Chris Cawley noted the high risk of avalanches in that area and clarified that the
use of the building doesn’t have an impact on the design requirements; the building would have
to be design to protect human occupants from a 100-year avalanche event whether it is a single-
family home or a larger hotel building.


Alta Planning Commission Meeting Minutes
March 26, 2025                                                                                       6
                                                                                         Page 10 of 86




Rob Voye inquired if the conversation could realistically proceed without addressing the culvert
issue. Jay Springer introduced himself as legal counsel for Shallow Shaft. He clarified that the
application that would come before the commission would be for a proposed text amendment to
allow properties in Zone C to do something other than tear down and rebuild. The Town requires
that a building plan is provided along with the request for the text amendment, so they have done
so, but it is not mandatory for the plan presented at this juncture to meet all the technical issues
that the Planning Commission is discussing

Rob Voye asked how long the building has been out of operation and it was determined that it
has been 5 years - since March of 2020. Voye expressed that the vacant building is a bit of an
eye-sore in the middle of town and conveyed a desire to work within the existing rules to solve
the problem.

Chris Cawley acknowledged that an avalanche design is not required for the Town to consider a
text amendment, but strongly encouraged the Shallow Shaft to take that requirement into
consideration as they continue down this path, noting potentially significant financial impacts.

Polly McLean explained that a plan is required to request a text amendment to prove that the
amendment is worthwhile. It wouldn’t be productive for the Town to approve an amendment if
nothing were to come of it afterward. This part of the process is beneficial for the Town to
provide feedback on the plan proposal to work towards finding a workable solution down the
road.

Maren Askins asked if there was still a possibility of operating a restaurant in the current
building as is. Andrina Hougham stated that they are not willing to operate a restaurant in the
current building as it exists.

There was a brief conversation about the concern of “spot zoning.” Jay Springer disagreed that
his client’s proposed text amendment would be spot zoning, observed that there have been very
few if any spot zoning cases argued in the Utah courts, and stated they are proposing a change
for a defined zone.

Maren Askins asked how the Phothaus property would be affected if the text amendment was
approved, since it is also in BFZ C. Chris Cawley clarified that, as written, the proposed text
amendment would alleviate the current substandard nature of the Photohaus lot and might allow
them to alter their building footprint, but may not allow for a building expansion due to lot
coverage requirements.

Rob Voye reiterated that for now, the focus should be on the inclusion of kitchens. Jon Nepstad
noted that was not a question that could be resolved today. Polly McLean stated that the Town’s
interpretation is that any unit that has a kitchen is considered a “dwelling”, and a “dwelling” is
defined as a residential use, which is currently prohibited in the BFZ. A hotel with no kitchens
would be allowed. While it was not on the agenda for this meeting, the concept of updating the
Town’s purpose statement, or General Plan, to allow such uses could be considered, but that is a
bigger topic that cannot be addressed in a single meeting. Chris Cawley noted that the Planning


Alta Planning Commission Meeting Minutes
March 26, 2025                                                                                       7
                                                                                          Page 11 of 86




Commission authors the General Plan and is in the position make recommendations on land use
regulations to the Town Council. He continued that the Town has not deliberately permitted
hotel rooms with kitchens, but that employee accommodations, or “owner’s units”, have been
approved with kitchen amenities and that some of the rental activity noted by the Shallow Shaft
may involve these owners units or other employee accomodations. Those types of rooms were
never counted towards hotel room density, so rental of them as hotel rooms would be a zoning
violation, and the Town is looking into these concerns. He continued that while the Town
doesn’t currently allow hotel rooms to have kitchens, the Town could consider updating
regulations to permit them, perhaps through an update to the General Plan.

David Abraham explained that without the proposed text amendment, options would be very
limited for the Shallow Shaft building to improve as they would be confined to the existing
footprint.

A conversation then took place about the history of the acreage requirements. The owners of the
Shallow Shaft believe that the minimum lot size was half an acre at the time they purchased the
property, siting that the change came in 2008 setting the 1-acre requirement. John Guldner
expressed that the Town asserts the requirement has always been 1 net-developable acre for
commercial properties, clarifying that the half-acre lot size has always applied to residential
buildings. Polly McLean noted that the Shallow Shaft may have to conduct an analysis to
determine the net-developable acreage of the parcel, as the .21 acres they are requesting in the
text amendment reflects the total lot size and may not result in any change to what they can build
if the net-developable acreage is less than that.

To conclude, the conversation turned once again to the inclusion of kitchens in hotel rooms, with
commissioners questioning if a precedent would be set if such use was allowed in this instance.
Chris Cawley clarified that it is something that must be regulated and will not be permitted
without the Town’s zoning regulations being updated. As one example of why the Town would
need to carefully consider allowing hotel rooms with kitchens, Cawley described that such uses
may require more culinary water source supply than hotel rooms, which could strain the Town of
Alta’s culinary water supply if they were to proliferate as hotel properties redevelop in the future.

    5. NEW BUSINESS

No new business was discussed.


    6. DATE OF NEXT MEETING

The next meeting is scheduled for April 23, 2025, at 3:00 PM.

    7. MOTION TO ADJOURN

Planning Commission member Rob Voye moved to adjourn the meeting. Planning Commission
Member Jeff Niermeyer seconded the motion, and the motion was carried with unanimous consent
of the commission.


Alta Planning Commission Meeting Minutes
March 26, 2025                                                                                       8
                                           Page 12 of 86




Minutes Approved on July 15, 2025


__________________________
Chris Cawley, Town Manager




Alta Planning Commission Meeting Minutes
March 26, 2025                                        9
                                                                                         Page 13 of 86




Alta Planning Commission

Staff Report

To: Alta Planning Commission
From: Chris Cawley, Town Manager
Re: Shrontz Estate Petition to Rezone Patsey Marley Hill property
Date: July 8, 2025
Attachments: Petition to Rezone letter; Alta Patsey Marley presentation; Aqua Engineering
drinking water memo; Division of Drinking Water Approval; SLC Department of Public Utilities
consent to petition to rezone



Background

The Town of Alta (the Town) and the owners of the Estate of Joanne L. Shrontz (the Estate) have
been in discussion over development of the Patsey Marley Hill property (the Property) for many
years. In 2009, the Estate applied to the Town to subdivide the Property and develop single
family homes. The Town denied the application due to the lack of culinary water availability and
lack of access to the site. The Estate sued the Town, as well as SLC Corporation (SLC), and the
ensuing litigation was settled in 2014. The development agreement between the Town and the
Estate provided for development of 10 single-family homes of up to 8500 square feet each,
above grade, in compliance with the Town’s FR-1 Zone. SLC entered into a stipulation and
motion which allocated 800 gallons per day of water for each of the 10 homes. The stipulation
and motion also set forth conditions upon which the Estate could apply to the Town to rezone
the property

In recent years, the Estate has explored alternatives to the 10-lot subdivision. During the
summer of 2023, the Estate began contemplating a proposal to develop a condominium project
on the land area within the Property below the Albion Basin Summer Road (ABSR), in
compliance with the Town’s FM-20 zoning district, while applying a conservation easement to
the approximately 20 acres above the ABSR. The property is currently zoned FR-1. The Estate
first presented their proposal in a meeting of the Alta Planning Commission in December 2024.
The proposal was also discussed at the January Planning Commission meeting and a site visit
was held at the February Planning Commission meeting. In addition, there was an open house
presenting the proposal to the public on March 25, 2025. The proposal has not changed
materially during this time. .

FR and FM Zoning Districts Under Town of Alta Code

 ZONE            FR-1 Alta Code 10-6A                      FM-20 Alta Code 10-6C
                                                                                                           Page 14 of 86




                  To allow for uses compatible with the natural      To allow high density residential, limited commercial, resort
                  and scenic beauty of Alta. To increase the         dwellings occupied or owned for periods of less than 30 days,
                  period of ownership and occupancy of Alta's        to the extent that such development is compatible with the
 PURPOSE          residents (sic).                                   protection of natural and scenic resources
                  Single family dwellings. Accessory uses and
 PERMITTED        structures customarily incidental to a permitted   Single family dwellings. Accessory uses and structures
 USES             use                                                customarily incidental to a permitted use
                                                                     Accessory/customarily incidental, apartment or lodging
                                                                     houses, hotels, condominium projects, liquor stores,
                  Recreation, employee quarters, office uses         recreation, dwelling groups, employee quarters, multiple
 CONDITIONAL      incidental to main use, public and quasi-public    family dwellings, offices incidental to main use, restaurant,
 USES             uses, temporary structures                         boutique, ski shop, etc., temp. structures
 PROHIBITED
 USES             Rentals under 30 days
 LOT AREA AND                                                        minimum 1/2 acre, 100 feet min. width, subdivided lots not
 WIDTH            1 acre, 200 feet                                   less than one "net developable acre" in size
 YARD             Setbacks are individually determined by the        Setbacks are individually determined by the Planning
 REGULATIONS      Planning Commission                                Commission
 HEIGHT                                                              35' above lower of established or finished grade, height of
 REQUIREMENTS     35' above lower of established or finished grade   conditional uses determined by Planning Commission
 MAXIMUM LOT
 COVERAGE         25 percent of net developable acreage              25 percent of gross lot area
 DENSITY                                                             Up to 20 dwelling units or 40 guestrooms per net developable
 REGULATIONS                                                         acre and contained in not more than 2 buildings



The Proposal and Compliance with the Provisions of FM-20 and the Town of Alta General Plan,
and the Recent History of Condominiums in Town of Alta Land Use Planning

Staff finds that the Proposal generally complies with FM-20 for the following reasons:

    •   “Lot 1” of the proposed 2-lot subdivision is 6.51 acres with 3.3 acres of net developable
        area, which is calculated by removing slope over 30 percent and areas within 50 feet of
        waterways. 3.3 acres would allow for up to 66 dwelling units and up to 132 guest rooms.
        The presentation does not specify guestrooms but only shows up to 33 dwelling units.
    •   The coverage of Lot 1 is roughly 60,000 square feet or 1.37 acres, which is 21% of the
        land area within Lot 1.
    •   Multi-family dwellings are permitted as a conditional use by the Planning Commission.
    •   Height and setbacks are individually determined by the Planning Commission.

The Town of Alta General Plan does not specifically address future uses of the Property. Below
are some excerpts which could be found to affect the Proposal:

        SECTION 3.2 - WETLANDS The Town enforces strict compliance with all federal laws
        pertaining to wetlands. In principle, no wetlands within the town should be filled,
        drained, or otherwise altered for any reason unless results of the “soil & hydrology of
        Albion Basin wetlands” study of 1992 and/or federal law allow replacement or
        mitigation without detriment to the environment. In coordination with the corps of
        engineers and the Salt Lake Valley Health Department, the Town has developed a
        general map locating approximate boundaries of significant wetland and riparian areas.
        Acquisition of privately held properties containing wetlands, for conservation purposes
        is supported.
                                                                                                             Page 15 of 86




The Proposal may entail crossing waterways or wetland areas in order to access the proposed
development. However, staff notes the 2014 Development Agreement includes a plat that
shows driveways to single family dwellings crossing waterways that may also cross defined
wetlands.

        SECTION 3.8 – PRIVATE LAND ACQUISITION the town supports and encourages the acquisition of
        vacant or undeveloped private lands within environmentally sensitive areas, those not served by
        public utilities, those with high public open space and recreational values, and those not readily
        accessible to emergency services. Such acquisitions should be made by either an appropriate
        governmental agency or private entity(s) with the understanding and agreement that such lands
        be conserved in perpetuity. The acquisition of privately owned vacant lands in environmentally
        sensitive areas has been recommended by Federal and local agencies and has been a consistent
        policy for the Town of Alta since 1973. The acquisition of such properties is encouraged, and
        implementation of this recommendation should be made a high priority.

The Shrontz Estate is proposing to donate a conservation easement on just under 20 acres of
land above the ABSR. The land is high-value open space for Alta’s residents and visitors as the
upper ABSR passes through it. Over one hundred thousand people annually use the ABSR on a
year-round basis for myriad recreation purposes such as accessing popular USDA Forest Service
(USFS) trailheads in upper Albion Basin and the Albion Basin Campground. The land includes
wetlands and waterways. The land has conservation value because it is developable, in the
headwaters of a major watershed, and accessible to so many.

        SECTION 3.13 – ALBION BASIN ROAD because the Albion Basin Road has historically and is
        currently used for winter recreation, the town opposes both the paving and plowing of the Albion
        Basin Road for winter access. The town should continue to provide summer maintenance. The
        information booth at the beginning of the road, that is provided without charge to the public, has
        been very successful and should be continued for summer use.

The Estate applied to the USFS, and was granted conditional approval to widen and pave several
hundred feet at the beginning of the ABSR in order to access the proposed 10 lot subdivision.
The proposal would substantially disrupt historic use of the summer road by Alta’s residents and
visitors, especially Albion Basin and Grizzly Gulch homeowners, who have stored over-snow
vehicles on the area the USFS permitted the Estate to pave and maintain. Despite its general
plan policy, the Town has no authority to prevent the Estate from pursuing the work permitted
by USFS. However, the Estate has recently begun discussions with the USFS about analysis and
permitting of a new driveway and access concept crossing National Forest System Land below
the ABSR. If approved by USFS, this alternative would likely create fewer conflicts with existing
users of the ABSR.

        SECTION 4.1 - ZONING The existing zoning of all areas should continue. A new zone should be
        created for private lands acquired and placed in the public domain. All areas annexed should be
        subject to study and potential rezoning. Possible changes in use for parcels are not precluded and
        applications for rezoning should be examined for the full range of effects on the public interests
        and environmental impacts.

This section goes on to say the Town’s zoning ordinance was completely revised and adopted in
1990. Various updates to the Town’s zoning ordinance have been adopted in the meantime
without updates to this section. The Town’s consideration of the Estate’s proposal is in keeping
with the final sentence of this policy.
                                                                                                   Page 16 of 86



        SECTION 4.3 – TOWN CENTER COMMERCIAL (various excerpts) “…this element focuses
        on the creation, enhancement, support, and concentration of commercial development
        in the areas currently zoned as Base Facilities.” “This area is generally defined as the
        land from Alta Peruvian Lodge to the Albion Base Area.”

The Property is near the boundary of an area described in the general plan as the “Commercial
Core,” as reflected in the General Plan Map showing the Commercial Core:




Whether and where to allow condominiums, especially in the Commercial Core, has been a hot
topic in Town of Alta land use planning and regulation since the Town was incorporated.
Historically, the Town has preferred single-family home development to condominium
development in residential areas in order to maintain a community with residential
characteristics and avoid development of more dwelling units than can be served by utilities,
transportation infrastructure, and other services. However, there are several residential
developments in Alta west of the Commercial Core that are zoned FM-10 or FM-20, all of which
are condominium developments. At the same time, the Town has prohibited all residential uses
in its commercial zoning district, which applies to all private property explicitly within the
Commercial Core boundary shown above.

Rezoning a portion of the property which is adjacent to but not explicitly within the Commercial
Core to FM-20 could be seen as a departure from the general pattern of segregating commercial
and residential uses to distinct areas. Owners of some of Alta’s hotel properties, which are
zoned Base Facilities and hence are prohibited from including condominiums, have expressed a
desire to build condominiums on their properties for a variety of reasons including the use of
                                                                                                            Page 17 of 86




condominium sales to finance other improvements. The Town has declined to permit
condominium development in those cases for several reasons, including:

    •     The Commercial Core and properties zoned Base Facilities are the Town’s sales tax base,
          and the Town has concluded in the past that residential uses such as condominiums
          could lead to “dark rooms” when owners do not choose to rent the units out, thus not
          generating taxable sales.
    •     Alta’s original five hotels, all of which have been present since the 1950s, are beloved as
          a unique product in American ski towns, providing a relatively full-service experience
          and communal atmosphere to guests. Because they all include restaurants, bars, and
          other ancillary services, they are hubs of employment that also provide on-site
          employee housing and thus contribute to Alta’s larger sense of community. Some have
          expressed concern that allowing existing hotels to condominiumize would dilute or
          jeopardize a part of Alta’s unique and vibrant identity.

Some have expressed concern that allowing the Estate to build condominiums instead of single-
family homes or a hotel could obligate the Town to allow Alta’s hotels to condominiumize to
some extent. To be clear, because the town council has broad discretion to make or change land
use regulations, the Town would have no legal obligation to change zoning elsewhere in Alta if it
does decide to approve the Estate’s proposed rezone. However, the Town should carefully
consider what precedent could be set and applied in other areas if the Town decides to approve
the proposed rezone.

          SECTION 4.4 - SKI AREA EXPANSION

The General Plan contains general policy statements about ski area expansions complying with
watershed regulations and environmental best management practices, but it does not address
any specific potential future expansion. Any development on the Property could affect Alta Ski
Area operations and especially any future expansion of Alta Ski Area into Grizzly Gulch. Alta Ski
Area has expressed concern about impacts to potential Grizzly Gulch chairlift alignments from
various development proposals and potentially the application of a conservation easement to
portions of the Property.

Petition to Rezone

In February 2025, the Estate submitted a formal petition to rezone the property including the
fee provided in the Town of Alta fee schedule. The petition to rezone is attached. Below is the
petition to rezone language from Town Code:

        10-6C-11 PETITIONS TO REZONE requires the following be submitted to the Town: name and address
        of petitioner, statement of all interest in property, legal description of property, statement of
        reasons and basis of Proposal, statement in detail of plans, statement of availability of utility
        services, fees, Planning Commission review.

In applying this regulation, the Town must also adhere to various provisions of the Utah
Municipal Code, which entitles an applicant to a substantive review of the application (10-9a-
509 (1)(a)), and requires that the Town apply the plain language of land use regulations while
interpreting regulations to favor the application (10-9a-306).
                                                                                               Page 18 of 86




Staff have heard comments and concerns about aspects and implications of the Estate’s petition
to rezone and whether or not it can be considered complete. For instance, the Estate’s
permission to improve the ABSR only applies to the subdivision. However, the Estate has an
easement accessing its property along the ABSR. There have also been comments regarding the
water availability which are addressed below.

Under Utah Code Annotated 10-9a-501, land use regulations including zoning are legislative
decisions, and the courts have supported broad authority for municipal councils to create and
amend land use regulations so long as it is “reasonably debatable” that the decision to do so
advances the purpose of the Land Use, Development, and Management Act. This means that
after the Planning Commission makes a recommendation, the Alta Town Council may approve
or deny the Estate’s petition at the council’s discretion so long as their decision is reasonably
debatable.

Given all of this, staff finds the Estate’s petition to rezone sufficiently complete to proceed.

Drinking Water and Past Litigation, Technical Memorandum, Division of Drinking Water
Approval of a Source Capacity Reduction

Provision of drinking water to development on the Patsy Marley Hill property was a key issue in
the litigation between the Estate, SLC, and the Town of Alta. The settlement allows the Estate to
use up to 8,000 gallons per day, averaged over a 30-day billing period, for the 10 lot subdivision
provided for under the development agreement. This volume of water is to be counted against
the Town of Alta’s 265,000 GPD limit on water use per its surplus water agreement with SLC.

The stipulation and motion establishes conditions the Estate must satisfy in order to apply to
rezone the property, including that a rezone would not increase the demand for water on the
property. To satisfy this condition, the Estate engaged an engineering firm to evaluate the
drinking water consumption associated with the proposed condominium project. The Estate’s
engineer collected water use data from condominium developments in Deer Valley and included
data from the Village at Sugarplum in Alta. Based on these data, the Estate proposed an
Equivalent Residential Connection (ERC) value of 242 gallons per day (GPD), whereas Division of
Drinking Water (DDW) Code R309-510-7 requires 800 GPD per ERC. Under the stipulation and
motion between the Estate and SLC Public Utilities, the Estate may only use an average of 8,000
GPD, measured on a 30-day billing period. 8,000 divided by the Estate’s proposed unit count of
33 equals roughly 242 gallons.

Based on its analysis, the Estate requested a reduction in source sizing from the DDW under
DDW Code R309-510-5. DDW granted the Estate a temporary exception to R309-510-7
approving a system-specific ERC value for the Estate’s proposed drinking water system of 242.
The temporary exception requires the estate to begin metering actual water use immediately
and will expire in 2029. The Estate is required to submit peak day demand data to the State
annually as soon as it is available and presumably must apply to reinstate the exception.

The Town asked Hansen, Allen, and Luce (HAL), an engineering firm completing master plans for
the Town’s drinking water and sewer systems, to provide feedback to the Estate’s technical
memo and DDW approval letter. Staff and HAL offer the following reactions to the Estate’s
memo and DDW approval:
                                                                                             Page 19 of 86




    •   The Estate is cutting it very close in proposing to build 33 condominium units with an
        ERC value of 242 on a budget of 8,000 GPD, as 33 x 242 = 7986. Full buildout of the
        Estate’s proposal does not include any sort of contingency or safety factor in case use
        exceeds 8,000 GPD. It is not uncommon for large users on the Town of Alta water
        system, for instance, to significantly exceed their average daily or monthly usage in the
        event of a plumbing issue or leak on their systems.
    •   The DDW letter suggests that the Estate could accommodate fluctuations in use by
        pumping water into a storage tank. However, the Estate’s use will be metered by the
        Town of Alta at the Bay City Tunnel, and a storage tank would be located downstream of
        the meter, so a development would need to be extremely judicious in controlling use to
        avoid violating its water budget.
    •   The sizing study, and presumably the DDW exception, do not consider water loss. The
        US Environmental Protection Agency estimates that average water loss in public
        drinking water systems is 16 percent. While the Estate would install a new drinking
        water system and modern fixture units for any development, over time, those features
        will deteriorate and begin to leak, and could break or malfunction due to human error at
        any time.
    •   The Town will sell water to the condominium development and will be first in line to
        enforce the 8,000 GPD limit. The Town should not relish the prospect of shutting off
        water to a development on the property and enforcement against individual unit
        owners or a homeowner’s association could be very difficult.
    •   Back of house, ancillary/accessory uses, especially water-intensive uses such as on-site
        housekeeping or laundry

SLC reviewed the Estate’s memorandum and DDW approval and provided similar comments in a
July 3, 2025 letter confirming SLC’s consent for the Estate’s petition to rezone to proceed, in
compliance with the 2014 Stipulation and Motion. The letter is attached.

Questions have been raised about whether the Town can rezone property that is subject to a
development agreement. The Estate proposes that a rezone would not take effect until the
Town, the Estate, and SLC amend the 2014 agreements . Staff recommends that any final
consideration of the petition will include mutually acceptable amendments to the Development
Agreement and the Stipulation and a donation agreement. Additionally, any final consideration
of the petition will not be structured as an approval of the rezone subject to future conditions.
Staff is comfortable with the planning commission and town council considering the core of the
Estate’s proposed rezone but final action would have to be contemporaneous with an
amendment to the development agreement.

Comment by Alta Ski Area to the Alta Town Council and Alta Planning Commission regarding
the Proposal

Alta Ski Area (ASA) recently submitted a comment to the Town on the Estate’s proposal. ASA
indicated it supports the concept of a condominium project as an alternative to the 10-lot
subdivision. However, ASA expressed disappointment that the Estate has not engaged ASA to
discuss the implications of the Estate’s proposal for ASA’s future plans to expand the ski area
into Grizzly Gulch via a lift alignment that may originate near and cross over the Estate’s land.
ASA described that its offer to allow construction of a water tank to serve a development and
provide emergency capacity to the Town water system is contingent upon ASA obtaining an
                                                                                             Page 20 of 86




easement across the property for a lift alignment. ASA argued that Town Code requires the
Estate to figure out its access issues and the location of its water tank prior to a rezone being
approved.

The Planning Commission is free to consider ASA’s input in considering a recommendation to
the Town Council on the Estate’s petition to rezone. And the Town Council can weigh a wide
variety of factors in deciding whether to ultimately approve a rezone of the property and
renegotiate the development agreement with the Estate, including the ski area’s input on the
proposal.

Summary of Key Topics

Development of the Patsy Marley Hill property is an extremely complex topic due to the
overlapping jurisdictions present in Alta, the Estate’s access to drinking water, past litigation
between the Town, SLC, and the Estate, and the fact that the Patsy Marley Hill property exhibits
significant environmental and social value while being one of the largest currently developable
private parcels in the Cottonwood Canyons. The future of the property has been a key question
in the Town’s future planning for generations.

Staff recommends the Planning Commission focus on the core of the Estate’s proposal, which is
to develop a condominium project, in a single building below the ABSR, while applying a
conservation easement above the ABSR, instead of a ten-lot subdivision covering the entire 26-
acre parcel.

    •   Is the open space proposal, as well as the proposal to develop an alternative to the
        Estate’s subdivision access plan across the ABSR, worth whatever expectations could be
        created for the Town to allow condominiums in the Base Facility Zone?
    •   Is the building itself, which the Estate proposes to be up to 160,000 square feet above
        and below grade, a less significant visual impact on the landscape than the development
        of ten homes that can be up to 8,500 square feet? Is one very large building preferrable
        to ten not as large buildings, spread across the property, each with their own driveway,
        utilities, and other site improvements?
    •   Is the density and intensity of use appropriate for the site? In exchange for the 10
        homes, 33 units are proposed.
    •   How should the Town evaluate ASA’s desire for a ski lift easement across the property,
        and other concerns expressed by ASA, as the Town considers the Estate’s proposed
        conservation easement? Development of commercial skiing in Grizzly Gulch is another
        major topic on Alta’s horizon, but the Town has not taken a formal position on it in the
        past.

Steps to Follow a Planning Commission Recommendation

The Planning Commission must issue a positive, negative, or neutral recommendation to the
Town Council regarding the Estate’s petition to rezone and can recommend stipulations or
conditions to the council. After that, numerous steps remain for the rezone to take effect and
for the project to eventually be developed such as:
                                                                                          Page 21 of 86




    •   The Alta Town Council must agree to amend the 2014 development agreement. The
        Council can consider a wide variety of aspects of a proposed development, including
        unit count, massing, access, location of a water tank, and other details.
    •   The Town Council must approve the rezone.
    •   SLC must agree to amend the 2014 stipulation and motion. SLC has expressed a
        willingness to consider an amendment, and support in principle for the conservation
        proposal, while ensuring compliance with the 2014 agreement as the Estate pursues a
        rezone.
    •   USFS must approve a plan to access the condominium project.
    •   The Town must approve a subdivision plat and a condominium plat.
    •   Because condominiums are a conditional use, the Estate must obtain a conditional use
        permit for the development from the Planning Commission. The Commission will also
        need to approve various components of the development including height and setbacks.
    •   The Town must issue a building permit.

July 15th Alta Planning Commission Meeting

The meeting will begin with a public hearing to receive public comment on the petition to
rezone and the Estate’s proposal. The regular meeting will follow the public hearing, and the
agenda will include possible action to forward a recommendation to the Town Council. The
Estate suggested the following language for a Planning Commission motion:

Alta Planning Commission forward a [positive, negative, neutral] recommendation to the Alta
Town Council to consider the rezone request by the Estate of JoAnne L. Shrontz for the rezone of
6.52 Acres from the Forest and Recreation Zone (FR-0.5) to the Forest Multifamily Zone (FM-20)
subject to the following conditions: 1) Town Council considers a Donation Agreement for a
conservation easement on 19.98 acres, 2) a modification of the 2014 Development Agreement to
allow a multifamily condo building, 3) a modification of the Stipulation Agreement among the
Estate, the Town, and Salt Lake Corporation, and 4) the Town and Estate jointly support an
alternative year-round access to the project through an application to the Forest Service.

The Planning Commission may choose to use this language or it may choose to include other
conditions or stipulations.
Page 22 of 86
                                                                                                Page 23 of 86

                                                                         Wade R. Budge, P.C.
SNELL                                                                    Partner
                                                                         o 8or.2s7.t906 | F 801.257.1800
&WILMER                                                                  wbudge@swlaw.com



February 5,2025

Chris Cawley
Town Administrator
Town of Alta
PO Box 8016
Alta, UT 84092
ccawley@townofa lta.com

Re: Petition for Rezone, per Town Code of Alta $ 10-1-8

Dear Chris,

This firm represents The Estate of JoAnne L. Shrontz (the "Estate"), who is the property owner of a
parcel located at 8640 S. Hawk Hill Road, Alta, Utah (the "Parcel"). On behalf of the Estate, we submit
this petition for a Zoning Map Amendment with the Town of Alta ("Town"). The Estate is seeking to
rezone 6.52 acres of the Parcel from the Forest and Recreation Zone (FR-0.5) District to the Forest
Multifamily Zone (FM-20) District. This rezone would allow the development on the approx. 3.5-acre
area below the Albion Basin Rd. ROW, while preserving the 19.98 acres of the Parcel above the Albion
Basin Rd. ROW with a recorded conservation easement. The petition is being filed in accordance with
Town Code of Alta 5 10-1-8 and 10-6C-11.

The purpose of the petition is to accommodate the development of a project with twenty-nine (29)
residential condos plus three (3) or more work force housing units (and an ADA unit as shown on the
drawings) on the rezoned portion of the Parcel (the "Project"). As you are aware, numerous options
have been considered and discussed with the Town. We continue to receive valuable input from Town
sources, including the Town's planning commission. We submit this to make sure that we are not
skipping the formal part of actually having an application on file as the Town invests in this process with
us. We think the fundamental opportunity remains to replace the approved, ten (10) dispersed house
sites on the Parcel with a single condominium building. The Forest Multifamily Zone (FM 20) District will
provide viable use of a small portion of the property, while preserving the majority of the property,
which is the most visible and important for a number of conservation purposes.

Alta Town Code requires that a petition to rezone into the FM-20 District contain the elements below.
We have addressed each of these elements either in this letter or in an attachment to this letter. The
required elements are:

       1.     The full name and address of the petitioner. The Estate of JoAnne Shrontz- PO BOX
45385 SALT IAKE Crry UT 84145.

        2.       A statement of all legal. contractual and equitable interest in the propertv as to which
zone amendment or chanee is sought, including the names and addresses of all such individuals. See
included affidavit.




Snell& Wilmer | 15 West South Temple I Suite 1200 | Salt Lake City, UT84L01                    swrAw.coM
                                                                                             Page 24 of 86

                                                                      Chris Cawley
SNELL                                                                 February 5,2025
                                                                      Page 2
&WILMER
        3.   A legal description bv metes and bounds, or otherwise, of the propertv as to which
zoning amendment or change is sought. See included legal description.

        4.      A statement as to the reasons and basis for the amendment or change to anv zoning
ordinance or land use classification. See below.

The purpose of the rezone to FM-20 is to accommodate the development of twenty nine (29) residential
condos plus three (3) or more workforce housing units and an ADA unit on the rezoned portion of the
Parcel (the "Proiect"). As you are aware, numerous options have been considered and discussed with
the Town. The Forest Multifamily Zone (FM-20) District will provide viable use of a small portion of the
property, while preserving the majority of the property, which is the most visible. Any approval of this
rezone request would need to be accompanied with an approved amendment to the development
agreement with the Town and be further conditioned upon obtaining a corresponding amendment to
the settlement agreement with Salt Lake Public Utilities.

        5.     lf real propertv is to be developed pursuant to the proposed amended and/or changed
zoning ordinance. a statement in detail of the plans relating to such development. including those
elements as required in sections 10-6C-3 through and includins 10-6C-9 of this article. See below and
attached concept plans.

Explanation on how the proposal will meet the Forest Multifamily Zone (FM-20) District Standards:

        10-6C-3: Conditional Uses:

             The Project is defined as an "Apartment house, lodging house, hotel, time period unit and
             condominium project". The project will require additional detailed review and approval, in
             addition to the rezone. lt is anticipated that the application for the additional review and
             conditional use permit would be submitted after the rezone petition is approved.

       10-5C-4: Lot Area. Lot Width And Slope Requirements:

             The area to be rezoned and where development will happen is generally located below
             Albion Basin Rd. and consists of 6.52 acres. This area meets the minimum lot area, width
             andsloperequirement. Aportionofthisrezonedareawouldbesubjectedtoaconservation
             easement as described in this letter and as would be confirmed in the proposed amendment
             to the development agreement.

       10-6C-5: Yard Resulations:

             As mentioned above, the area of proposed development has been previously approved for
             the development of two (2) single family homes below the Albion Basin Road. The area will
             be able to provide adequate front, side and rear yards to buffer the development from
             neighboring properties. The 6.52-acre parcel subject to rezoning also included a single-
             family lot above the Albion Basin Rd in the previously approved plat. The Applicant
             proposes to encumber the rezoned area above the Albion Basin Rd. with a conservation
                                                                                       Page 25 of 86

                                                               Chris Cawley
SNELL                                                           February 5,2025
                                                                Page 3
&WILMER
      easement. The remaining FR-0.5 area above the road (not included in the rezone) would
      also be encumbered by the conservation easement.

  1-0-6C-6: Heieht Requirements


      The site planning for the Project within this proposed zone takes into consideration - the
      natural setting, other structures and open space, the existing vegetation, the slope/contours
      of the site and existing site lines. The development of one single structure on the entire
      25.16 acre Parcel, as opposed to ten (10) structure dispersed through the Parcel will create
      much less of a visual impact. The Applicant is proposing a maximum ridgeline elevation of
      8,875' USGS. Maximum ond minimum heights of all conditionol uses sholl be determined by
      the planning commission and after onalysis... (10-6C-6).

  10-6C-7: Densitv Regulations

      The Project will meet the density requirements of the Forest Multifamily Zone (FM-20)
      District, which permits up to 20 dwelling units or 40 guestrooms per net developable acre
      and contained in not more than 2 buildings. There are approximately 3.3 developable acres
      included in the area to be rezoned. This would permit up to 66 dwelling units or 132 guest
      rooms. We are seeking the rezone to FM-20 in order to permit a maximum 29 condo units in
      one building. ln addition, the Applicant is proposing to include 3 or more workforce housing
      units, with a minimum total of 8 bedrooms, and at least one (1) ADA unit in the Project.
       Total guest room (bedroom) count for the project will not exceed 132, including the
      workforce housing and ADA unit.

  1-0-6C-8: Maximum Lot Coverage

     The Project would result in less than 25% of the gross lot area being covered. The maximum
     lot coverage permitted on the 6.51 acre Lot 1, after the rezone is 1.63 acres. The lot
     coverage for the building, driveway and other areas defined in the code shall be less than
     the 1.53 acres.

  10-6C-9: Special Regulations

     The following provisions/considerations have been made in regard to this petition

                       A. Natural Hazards: Consideration of floods, landslides, avalanches, a high-
              water table, or inordinate soil erosion will be taken into account when plans for the
              site are developed.

                       B. Board Of Health Approval: Approval from Salt Lake Valley Health
              Department shall be obtained prior to a Certificate of Occupancy being issued. The
              project will be connected to public water and sewer systems.
                                                                                                Page 26 of 86

                                                                              Chris Cawley
SNELL                                                                         February 5,2025
                                                                              Page 4
&WILMER
                             C. Sewage System: No permits shall be issued until approval from the
                    sewer provider is obtained. Will serve letters have been provided for sewer service
                    on the property.

                             D. Building Materials: Building will be constructed of noncombustible
                    materials that blend harmoniously with the natural environment. The building(s)
                    constructed on this site for the Project will be designed to preserve the natural
                    beauty of the canyon area.

                             E. Grading: The proposed building site minimizes area of disturbance
                    relative to previously approved single-family subdivision. With the approval of the
                    proposed rezone, only one (1) site would be disturbed as opposed to ten (10 sites).
                    The access driveway will be constructed to minimize area of disturbance with cut
                    and fill slopes revegetated after construction.

                             F. Natural Vegetation: The Project is designed to retain as much of the
                    existing natural vegetation as possible. The disturbance to vegetation will only occur
                    on the southwest corner of the property. The majority of the property will now be
                    undisturbed. The previously approved plat would create disturbance throughout the
                    entire property.

                             G. Stream Regulations: The proposed will maintain a fifty-foot (50') setback
                    from the existing water course north of the building site. Driveway crossings of the
                    two water courses on the Property shall be constructed in accordance with
                    applicable state and federal regulations.

                             H. Rehabilitation of Existing Landscape Scars: Areas recently disturbed for
                    utility construction plus all areas disturbed during construction of the Project will be
                    revegetated to ensure visibility is minimized.

                             l.  Parking Requirements: The number of parking spaces provided will
                    meet the required number of spaces identified in Town Code of Alta, Chapter 12.
                    There will be two (2) stalls per dwelling unit provided.

                             J. Utilities: The utilities for the Project will be placed underground
                             K. Time Period Unit Project: The proposed Project will not include
                    timeshare units.

        6.      A statement as to the availabilitv of all utilitv services.

The utilities for the Project have been planned and will-serve letters obtained where appropriate. Below
is a summary of who will provide each of the required utilities:
                                                                                                     Page 27 of 86

                                                                            Chris Cawley
SNELL                                                                       February 5,2025
                                                                            Page 5
&WILMER
          Water - Salt Lake Public Utilities (SLPU) is intended to provide water service to the property
          through a separate system run and owned by the HOA established for the proposed
          condominium building. Most of the water infrastructure has already been installed by the Estate
          per the existing settlement agreement. A condition of the rezone is the amendment of the
          settlement agreement between the Estate and SLPU. The storage component of this water
          system has been reviewed and approved by the Division of Drinking Water. These approvals are
          included. The HOA-administered water system shall fall under the oversight of the Division of
          Drinking Water, and applicable drinking water rules. We do note that under Section 10-14-4, we
          will have to satisfy the Town and other designated water culinary water authorities in advance of
          a land use application approval. This petition for a rezone, however, does not contain this
          requirement. But given that the rezone contemplates a condition of an amendment to the
          settlement agreement confirming water service, this issue will be addressed adequately in
          accordance with all applicable law.

          Sewer   - Sewer service will be provided by Salt Lake County Service Area #3 and Cottonwood
          lmprovement District. These entities have provided will-serve letters for the Parcel and signed
          the 10-lot subdivision plat, acknowledging that service is available to the site. (Will serve letters
          included with this letter.)

          Gas - Gas will be provided by Enbridge Gas, as it has taken over service for Dominion Energy. A
          will-serve letter for the Parcel and signed the 10-lot plat, acknowledging that service is available
          to the site was provided to the Estate previously. (Copy of signed plat included with this letter.)

          Electricity-   Rocky Mountain Power will provide electricity to the site. They have previously
          approved service to the Parcel and signed the 10-lot plat, acknowledging that service is available
          to the site. (lmage of signature on signed plat included with this letter.)

          Communication Services - Centurylink will provide communication services to the site. They
          have provided a will serve letter for the Parcel and signed the 10-lot plat, acknowledging that
          service is available to the site. (Copy of will serve letter and signed plat included with this letter.)

          7.       Fees. Submitted with this letter.


We look forward to working with the Town through this review and approval process. We recognize
there have been many discussions over the years regarding the use of this site and look forward to
moving forward with finalizing this opportunity to the mutual benefit of the Estate and Town. lf you
have any question or concerns, please feel free to reach out to me, orJason Boal 801..257.1917 in my
office.
                                                                                         Page 28 of 86

                                                                   Chris Cawley
SNELL                                                              February 5,2025
                                                                   Page 6
&WILMER
Best,




      L ha--
Sruru. & WITMER




Wade R. Budge, P.C


WRB:jb




Enclosures
      r Affidavit of Legal lnterest
      o Legal Description of Rezone Area
      o June 5,2078 - Phase l, Utah Department of Environment Quality Water Tank Approval Letter
      o October t,2OL8 - Phase ll, Utah Department of Environment Quality Water Tank Approval
         Letter.
      r November 7, 2023 - Utah Department of Environment Quality Water Tank Approval Letter.
      . July 20,2023 - Cottonwood lmprovement District Will Serve Letter.
      . January 24,2024 -Salt Lake Service Area No.3 WillServe Letter.
      o Signed Patsey Marley HillSubdivision Plat.
      o June 22,ZO2t - Centurylink Will Serve Letter.


cc:      Doug Ogilvy
         Shawn Ferrin
         Polly Mclean
         Client
Page 29 of 86
                                                                                                                                                                                               Page 30 of 86
                                                                                                                                       SHRONTZ PROPERTY
                                                                                                                                 PROPOSED PARCEL DESCRIPTION(S)
                                                                                         PROPOSED PARCEL 1
                                                                                         A PARCEL OF LAND BEING A PORTION OF SALT LAKE COUNTY PARCEL NUMBER 30-04-101-014, SAID COUNTY PARCEL DESCRIBED
                                                                                         IN A SPECIAL WARRANTY DEED, ENTRY NUMBER 7302430, AS RECORDED IN THE SALT LAKE COUNTY RECORDER'S OFFICE, SAID
                                                                                         PARCEL LOCATED IN THE NORTHWEST QUARTER OF SECTION 4, TOWNSHIP 3 SOUTH, RANGE 3 EAST, SALT LAKE BASE AND
                                                                                         MERIDIAN, TOWN OF ALTA, SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH, MORE PARTICULARLY DESCRIBED AS FOLLOWS:
                                                                                         COMMENCING AT A FOUND REBAR SET IN CONCRETE MARKING MINERAL MONUMENT NUMBER 3, THENCE SOUTH 72°05'43” EAST
                                                                                         1708.72 FEET TO THE NORTHWEST CORNER OF SAID COUNTY PARCEL, THENCE SOUTH 00°34'09” WEST 197.00 FEET ALONG THE
                                                                                         WEST LINE OF SAID COUNTY PARCEL TO THE POINT OF BEGINNING; THENCE SOUTH 62°16'27” EAST 112.38 FEET TO THE
                                                                                         BEGINNING OF A 708.80 FOOT RADIUS CURVE TO THE RIGHT; THENCE ALONG THE ARC OF SAID CURVE 61.07 FEET HAVING A
                                                                                         CENTRAL ANGLE OF 04°56'13 (CHORD BEARS SOUTH 59°48'20” EAST 61.06 FEET); THENCE NORTH 51°27'21” EAST 197.55 FEET;
                                                                                         THENCE NORTH 39°51'44” WEST 127.80 FEET; THENCE NORTH 48°06'46” EAST 226.62 FEET; THENCE SOUTH 39°52'25” EAST 236.12
                                                                                         FEET; THENCE SOUTH 51°47'44” WEST 401.65 FEET TO THE BEGINNING OF A 693.54 FOOT NON-TANGENT CURVE TO THE RIGHT;
                                                                                         THENCE ALONG THE ARC OF SAID CURVE 93.57 FEET HAVING A CENTRAL ANGLE OF 07°43'48” (CHORD BEARS SOUTH 45°47'45”
                                                                                         EAST 93.50 FEET); THENCE SOUTH 42°00'51” EAST 289.37 FEET TO THE BEGINNING OF A 822.47 FOOT NON-TANGENT CURVE TO THE
                                                                                         RIGHT; THENCE ALONG THE ARC SAID CURVE 101.32 FEET HAVING A CENTRAL ANGLE OF 07°03'31” (CHORD BEARS SOUTH
                                                                                         38°24'43” EAST 101.26 FEET) TO A POINT ON THE SOUTHERLY LINE OF SAID COUNTY PARCEL; THENCE SOUTH 60°41'24” WEST
                                                                                         425.39 FEET; THENCE NORTH 35°31'27” WEST 320.87 FEET; THENCE NORTH 00°34'09”EAST 446.75 FEET TO THE POINT OF
                                                                                         BEGINNING.
                                                                                         CONTAINS: 284,149 S.F. / 6.52 AC +/-

                                                                                         PROPOSED PARCEL 2
                                                                                         A PARCEL OF LAND BEING A PORTION OF SALT LAKE COUNTY PARCEL NUMBER 30-04-101-014, SAID COUNTY PARCEL DESCRIBED
                                                                                         IN A SPECIAL WARRANTY DEED, ENTRY NUMBER 7302430, AS RECORDED IN THE SALT LAKE COUNTY RECORDER'S OFFICE, SAID
                                                                                         PARCEL LOCATED IN THE NORTHWEST QUARTER OF SECTION 4, TOWNSHIP 3 SOUTH, RANGE 3 EAST, SALT LAKE BASE AND
                                                                                         MERIDIAN, TOWN OF ALTA, SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH, MORE PARTICULARLY DESCRIBED AS FOLLOWS:
                                                                                         COMMENCING AT A FOUND REBAR SET IN CONCRETE MARKING MINERAL MONUMENT NUMBER 3, THENCE SOUTH 72°05'43” EAST
                                                                                         1708.72 FEET TO THE NORTHWEST CORNER OF SAID COUNTY PARCEL AND THE POINT OF BEGINNING; THENCE NORTH 65°34'20”
                                                                                         EAST 70.00 FEET; THENCE NORTH 24°25'40” WEST 14.86 FEET; THENCE NORTH 64°40'00' EAST 445.56 FEET; THENCE NORTH
                                                                                         22°55'00” EAST 150.00 FEET; THENCE SOUTH 51°51'19” EAST 425.20 FEET TO THE BEGINNING OF A 954.93 FOOT RADIUS
                                                                                         NON-TANGENT CURVE TO THE RIGHT; THENCE 270.28 FEET ALONG THE ARC OF SAID CURVE HAVING A CENTRAL ANGLE OF
                                                                                         16°13'00” (CHORD BEARS SOUTH 42°05'00” EAST 269.38 FEET); THENCE SOUTH 33°58'30” EAST 310.00 FEET TO THE BEGINNING OF A
                                                                                         954.93 FOOT RADIUS CURVE TO THE LEFT; THENCE 281.53 FEET ALONG THE ARC OF SAID CURVE HAVING A CENTRAL ANGLE OF
                                                                                         16°53'30” (CHORD BEARS SOUTH 42°25'15” EAST 280.51 FEET); THENCE SOUTH 50°52'00” EAST 50.00 FEET; THENCE SOUTH 02°36'00”
                                                                                         WEST 200.00 FEET; THENCE WEST 600.00 FEET; THENCE NORTH 02°36'00” EAST 251.10 FEET; THENCE SOUTH 60°41'24” WEST 328.26
                                                                                         FEET TO THE BEGINNING OF A 822.47 FOOT NON-TANGENT CURVE TO THE LEFT; THENCE ALONG THE ARC OF SAID CURVE 101.32
                                                                                         FEET HAVING A CENTRAL ANGLE OF 07°03'31”(CHORD BEARS NORTH 38°24'43” WEST 101.26 FEET; THENCE NORTH 42°00'51” WEST
                                                                                         289.37 FEET TO THE BEGINNING OF A 693.54 FOOT NON-TANGENT CURVE TO THE LEFT; THENCE ALONG THE ARC OF SAID CURVE
                                                                                         93.57 FEET HAVING A CENTRAL ANGLE OF 07°43'48” (CHORD BEARS NORTH 45°47'45” WEST 93.50 FEET); THENCE NORTH 51°47'44”
                                                                                         EAST 401.65 FEET; THENCE NORTH 39°52'25” WEST 236.12 FEET; THENCE SOUTH 48°06'46” EAST 226.62 FEET; THENCE SOUTH
G:\2024\240908 PATSEY MARLEY 2 LOT SUBD\DRAWINGS\EXHIBITS\SHRONTZ PROPERTY EXHIBIT.DWG




                                                                                         39°51'44” EAST 127.80 FEET; THENCE SOUTH 51°27'21” WEST 197.55 FEET TO THE BEGINNING OF A 708.80 FOOT NON-TANGENT
                                                                                         CURVE TO THE LEFT; THENCE ALONG THE ARC OF SAID CURVE 61.07 FEET HAVING A CENTRAL ANGLE OF 04°56'13” (CHORD BEARS
                                                                                         NORTH 59°48'20” WEST 61.06 FEET); THENCE NORTH 62°16'27” WEST 112.38 FEET TO A POINT ON THE WESTERLY LINE OF SAID
                                                                                         COUNTY PARCEL; THENCE NORTH 00°34'09” EAST 197.00 FEET TO THE POINT OF BEGINNING.
                                                                                         CONTAINS: 812,036 S.F. / 18.64 AC +/-
                                                                                         THE BASIS OF BEARING FOR PROPOSED PARCEL(S) 1 AND 2 DESCRIPTION(S) IS SOUTH 89°17'24” EAST 1027.04 FEET BETWEEN A
                                                                                         FOUND BRASS CAP MONUMENT STAMPED “CC” AT THE NORTH ONE-QUARTER CORNER OF SECTION 5, TOWNSHIP 3 SOUTH,
                                                                                         RANGE 3 EAST, SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN, AND A FOUND REBAR SET IN CONCRETE, REPRESENTING MINERAL MONUMENT
                                                                                         NUMBER 3, WITH A MEASURED DISTANCE OF 1027.04 FEET.


                                                                                                                                                                                                         PROJECT NUMBER:
                                                                                                                                                                                   LAND SURVEYING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     204908

                                                                                                                                                                                                         DRAWN BY:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       JD

                                                                                                                                                                                                         CHECKED BY:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PC
                                                                                                                                                                                    DEVELOPMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                         DRAWING DATE:
                                                                                                                                                                                    PO BOX. 95029              02/04/2025
                                                                                                                                                                                SOUTH JORDAN, UT 84095
                                                                                                                                                                                 PHONE: (801) 446-1820   SHEET NUMBER:
                                                                                                                                                                                  WWW.FLINTUTAH.COM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1 OF 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 31 of 86
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SHRONTZ PROPERTY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PROPOSED PARCEL EXHIBIT

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LOCATED IN THE:
                                                                                                                                                                                                    NORTHWEST QUARTER OF SECTION 4, TOWNSHIP 3 SOUTH, RANGE 3 EAST,
                                                                                                                                                                                                 SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN, TOWN OF ALTA, SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH




                                                                                                                                                                             CALCULATED SECTION LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               N
                                                                                          FOUND BRASS CAP 32
                                                                                                                                                                              N89° 48' 17"E 2652.63' (C)                                              32        33 CALCULATED                                                                                                               SCALE
                                                                                            MONUMENT "CC"                                                                                                                                                            POSITION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0                                              250'
                                                                                            N1/4 COR SEC 5,             5    S89° 17'                                                                                              "W                                NW COR SEC 4
                                                                                            T3S, R3E, SLB&M
                                                                                                                                      24"E
                                                                                                                              1027.04'(M                                                                               S89° 52' 13                        5     4    T3S, R3E, SLB&M
                                                                                                                          BASIS O       )                                                                               1625.66'(C)
                                                                                                                                  F BEARIN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1" = 250'
                                                                                                                                                                               G

                                                                                                                  MINERAL MONUMENT #3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Parcel Line Table
                                                                                                                   (REBAR IN CONCRETE)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                               MATCH LINE                                                                                                                                      Line #    Length     Direction

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  L1      70.00     N65°34'20"E
                                                                                                             MATCH LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  L2      14.86     N24°25'40"W

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  L3     150.00     N22°55'00"E
                                                                                                                                 S00° 02' 00"E 529.00'
                                                                                                       S72




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       S5



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                L3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1°                                                                                                     L4      50.00     S50°52'00"E
                                                                                                          ° 05




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                51
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     '1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  L5     112.38     S62°16'27"E
                                                                                                           ' 43




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          9"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    42
                                                                                                             "E 1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      5.                                                                          L6     197.55     N51°27'21"E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           '
                                                                                                                 708




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .56                                                                                    '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 445                                                                                                                                                              L7     127.80     N39°51'44"W
                                                                                                                  .72




                                                                                                                                                                                                         E
                                                                                                                                                                                                     00"
                                                                                                                                                                                               40'
                                                                                                                    ' (T




                                                                                                                                                                                     N   64°                                                                                                                                                                                      L8      226.62    N48°06'46"E
                                                                                                                       IE)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  L9      236.12    S39°52'25"E
                                                                                                                                                                                    L2
                                                                                                                                                            L1                                                   L8                                                                                                                                                               L10     401.65    S51°47'44"W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  C1
                                                                                           POINT OF BEGINNING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                L9




                                                                                          REMAINDER PARCEL 2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      L11     289.37    S42°00'51"E
                                                                                         (NORTHWEST CORNER
                                                                                             OVERALL RECORD
                                                                                                                                                          197.00'




                                                                                                      PARCEL)
                                                                                                                                                                                                    L7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            S3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          RECORD PROPERTY OWNER:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 58
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   '3
                                                                                                                                                                    L5                         L6                                                                             JOANNE L. SHRONTZ




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0"
                                                                                           POINT OF BEGINNING                                                                                                                        0                                     (PARCEL NO. 30-04-101-014)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                L1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     E
                                                                                                                                                                               C3
                                                                                                                             N00° 34' 09"E 643.75'




                                                                                           PROPOSED PARCEL 1                                                                                                                                                                   ENTRY NO. 7302430




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        31
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PARCEL 2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                812036 S.F.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                OVERALL AREA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 18.64 AC.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1096185 S.F. / 25.16 AC +/-
                                                                                                                                                                                                         C
                                                                                                                                                                                                             4
                                                                                                                                                         446.75'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EXISTING 100'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          C2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ACCESS EASEMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                L1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1




                                                                                                                                                                             PARCEL 1
                                                                                                                                                                             284149 S.F.                                                                                                                                                                                                                 L4
                                                                                                                                                                              6.52 AC.                                                                                                          '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 N02° 36' 00"E 251.10'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S02° 36' 00"W 200.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      8.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                32
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          C5
G:\2024\240908 PATSEY MARLEY 2 LOT SUBD\DRAWINGS\EXHIBITS\SHRONTZ PROPERTY EXHIBIT.DWG




                                                                                                                                                                                  EXISTING 100'
                                                                                                                                                                             ACCESS EASEMENT                                                                         5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3.6
                                                                                                                                                         N3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               75
                                                                                                                                                           5°




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      24"W
                                                                                                                                                                   31




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               9'            °4
                                                                                                                                                                    '2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .3               0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        25               S6
                                                                                                                                                                     7"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4
                                                                                                                                                                         W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        N90° 00' 00"W 600.00'
                                                                                                                                                                          32
                                                                                                                                                                             0.8
                                                                                                                                                                               7'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PROJECT NUMBER:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LAND SURVEYING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      204908
                                                                                                                    LEGEND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DRAWN BY:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Curve Table
                                                                                           SECTION CORNER (FOUND)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        JD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Curve #            Length           Radius         Delta                  Chord Direction                               Chord Length
                                                                                           SECTION CORNER (CALCULATED)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CHECKED BY:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       C1           270.28           954.93         16°13'00"              S42°05'00"E                                   269.38                                                                                         PC
                                                                                           SECTION LINE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DEVELOPMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      C2            281.53           954.93         16°53'30"              S42°25'15"E                                   280.51
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DRAWING DATE:
                                                                                           MONUMENT / TIE LINE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PO BOX. 95029                                       02/04/2025
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      C3            61.07            708.80         4°56'13"               S59°48'20"E                                   61.06
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SOUTH JORDAN, UT 84095
                                                                                           PROPOSED PARCEL LINE                                                                                                       C4            93.57            693.54         7°43'48"               S45°47'45"E                                   93.50             PHONE: (801) 446-1820                   SHEET NUMBER:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            WWW.FLINTUTAH.COM
                                                                                           ADJACENT PARCEL / LOT LINE                                                                                                 C5            101.32           822.47         7°03'31"               S38°24'43"E                                   101.26                                                                                       2 OF 2
                                                                                                     Page 32 of 86

                                Department of
                             Environmental Quality
                                      Alan Matheson
                                     Executive Director
State of Utah                DIVISION OF DRINKING WATER
GARY R. HERBERT                    Marie E. Owens, P.E.
   Governor                              Director

 SPENCER J. COX
Lieutenant Governor




    June 5, 2018


    Charles Livsey
    Patsey Marley Water System
    36 South State Street, Suite 1400
    Salt Lake City, UT 84111

    Subject: Plan Approval, Patsey Marley Subdivision Waterline Project, Patsey Marley Water
             System, System #18163, File # 11195.

    Dear Mr. Livsey:

    The Division of Drinking Water (the Division) received the plans and specifications for the Patsey
    Marley Subdivision Waterline Project from your consultant Darin Hawkes, P.E. with Aqua
    Engineering on May 5, 2018. Darin Hawkes, P.E. of Aqua Engineering certified the results of the
    hydraulic analysis, and that the hydraulic model indicates compliance with the flow and pressure
    requirements for public drinking water systems. Updated version of drawings and specifications were
    received on May 30, 2018

    Our understanding of this water line project is that Patsey Marley plans to develop 10 service
    connections, which will serve 30 permanent residents. This proposed system will receive water from
    the Town of Alta’s (System#18049) 365,000 Gallon Tank (ST001). In this first stage of construction
    there will be installation of approximately 1,800 feet (Station 0+00 to 18+05) of 12-inch HDPE
    PE4710 DR11 water line from the water tank to the parking structure where a future pump station will
    be installed consisting of two types of pumps (fire flow and culinary variable frequency drive (VFD)
    pumps). The pumps will be installed in 2019 or later in the second phase of construction. The layout of
    the pipeline from the pump station will be 10-inch HDPE PE4710 DR11 pipe for about 771 feet
    (Station 18+05 to 25+76). Plan approval for the future pump station will be required.

    Part of the Town of Alta residents do not have adequate pipe sizing for fire flow and experience
    freezing pipes in the winter in their 2-inch existing HDPE pipeline. The Patsey Marley subdivision’s
    pipeline extension will serve the Town of Alta during emergency situations and alleviate freezing
    issues. This project will also provide a higher level of fire protection with the installation of new fire
    hydrants.

    The Division staff had telephone conversations with Charles Livsey on May 14, 2018 and Darin
    Hawkes on May 17, 2018 and learned of the wetland concern regarding the location of the proposed
    pump station to be constructed in 2019 or later. This concern will be resolved with the UDOT right of

                                            195 North 1950 West • Salt Lake City, UT
                               Mailing Address: P.O. Box 144830 • Salt Lake City, UT 84114-4830
                              Telephone (801) 536-4200 • Fax (801-536-4211 • T.D.D. (801) 903-3978
                                                          www.deq.utah.gov
                                                   Printed on 100% recycled paper
                                                                                             Page 33 of 86

Charles Livsey
Page 2 of 2
June 5, 2018

way project. The pipeline will be located within UDOT right of way and will be located on land
owned by the owner of the Patsey Marley subdivision within an existing utility easement. Based on
the review done by Salt Lake County Health Department, Patsey Marley has been given approval for
the construction of this project with specific stipulations regarding delineated wetlands and line of
disturbance (LOD) as mentioned in their letter dated May 30, 2018.

We have completed our review of the plans and specifications, stamped and signed by Darin Hawkes,
P.E., and dated May 23, 2018, and find they basically comply with the applicable portions of Utah’s
Administrative Rules for Public Drinking Water Systems in R309. Hydraulic Analysis Certification
for this project was stamped and singed by Darin Hawkes, P.E., was received by the Division on May,
30, 2018. On this basis, the plans to construct the Patsey Marley Subdivision Waterline project
are hereby approved.

Patsey Marley Water Company will be a new community water system and has yet to go through all
the requirements that will be set forth in the Welcome to the Club Letter (WTTC) including the plan
approval process of the entire water system, Capacity Development, Cross Connection Control
program, Operator Certification, and Monitoring and Reporting requirements. After satisfactory
completion of these requirements and after final inspection of the entire system, an operating
permit will be issued to the Patsey Marley Water System.

Approvals or permits from the local authority or the county may be necessary before beginning
construction of this project. As the project proceeds, notice of any changes in the approved design, as
well as any change affecting the quantity or quality of the delivered water, must be submitted to the
Division. We may also conduct interim and final inspections of this project. Please notify us when
actual construction begins so that these inspections can be scheduled.

This approval must be renewed if construction has not begun or if substantial equipment has not been
ordered within one year of the date of this letter.

If you have any questions regarding this approval, please contact Nagendra Dev, of this office, at
(801) 536-0098, or Nathan Lunstad, Engineering Manager, at (385) 239-5974.

Sincerely,



Nathan Lunstad, P.E.
Engineering Manager
NDev/nl/hb

Enclosure ─ Operating Permit Checklist

cc: Royal Delegge, Env. Director, Salt Lake County Health Department, rdelegge@slco.org
    Charles Livsey, Patsey Marley Water Company, clivsey@RQU.com
    Darin Hawkes, AQUA Engineering, darinh@aquaeng.com
    Nagendra Dev, Division of Drinking Water, ndev@utah.gov
DDW-2018-005501.docx
                                                                                            Page 34 of 86



 Utah Division of Drinking Water ― Checklist for Issuing Operating Permits
Water System Name:                                                     System Number:

Project Description:                                                   File Number:

Items 1 through 8 below must be submitted to the Division and found to be acceptable prior to
operating permit issuance (unless a water line project meets the requirements of R309-500-7 and
is not required to obtain an Operating Permit).

Distribution lines (not including in-line booster pump stations) requiring Plan Approval may be
placed into service prior to submitting all of the following items and receipt of Operating Permit
if the water system has received items 1 and 4 below.

☐ 1. Certification of Rule Conformance by a professional engineer (P.E.) that all conditions of
     Plan Approval were accomplished, and if applicable, changes made during construction
     were in conformance with rules R309-500 through 550
☐ 2. As-built or record drawings incorporating all changes to approved plans and
     specifications (unless no changes were made to the previously approved plans during
     construction)
☐ 3. Confirmation that as-built or record drawings have been received by the water system
☐ 4. Satisfactory bacteriological samples as evidence of proper disinfection and flushing in
     accordance with the appropriate ANSI/AWWA standards:
       ☐ ANSI/AWWA C651-14 AWWA Standard for Disinfecting Water Mains
               Two consecutive sample sets at least 16 hours apart, none positive (e.g., every
               1,200 feet, end-of-line, each branch)
       ☐ ANSI/AWWA C652-11 AWWA Standard for Disinfection of Water-Storage Facilities
               One or more samples, none positive
       ☐ ANSI/AWWA C653-13 AWWA Standard for Disinfection of Water Treatment
         Plants
               Two consecutive samples per unit, none positive, no less than 30 minutes apart
       ☐ ANSI/AWWA C654-13 AWWA Standard for Disinfection of Wells
               Two consecutive samples, none positive, no less than 30 minutes apart
☐ 5. Water quality data, where appropriate [For example, include raw and finished water data that
       demonstrate satisfactory performance of the treatment facility; sample should be taken from a
       storage tank for residual volatile organic compounds after tank interior re-coating; etc.]
☐ 6. If applicable, all other documentation that may have been required during the plan review
     process
☐ 7. If applicable, confirmation that the water system owner has received the O&M manual
     for the new facility
☐ 8. If applicable, location data of new storage tank, treatment facility, or source
                                                                                                   Page 35 of 86

                               Department of
                            Environmental Quality
                                    Alan Matheson
                                   Executive Director
State of Utah               DIVISION OF DRINKING WATER
GARY R. HERBERT                   Marie E. Owens, P.E.
   Governor                             Director

 SPENCER J. COX
Lieutenant Governor




    October 1, 2018



    Charles Livsey
    Patsey Marley Water System
    36 South State Street, Suite 1400
    Salt Lake City, UT 84111

    Subject: Plan Approval Patsey Marley Subdivision Phase II Waterline project, System #18163,
             File # 11195.

    Dear Mr. Livsey,

    The Division of Drinking Water (the Division) received the plans and specifications for the Patsey
    Marley Subdivision Phase II Waterline project from your consultant Aqua Engineering on
    September 12, 2018. Darin Hawkes, P.E. of Aqua Engineering certified the results of the
    hydraulic analysis, and that hydraulic model indicates compliance with the flow and pressure
    requirements for public drinking water systems. Patsey Marley Phase I Waterline was approved
    by the Division on June 5, 2018 and is still under construction according to telephone
    conversation made by division staff with Charles Livsey on September 19, 2018.

    Our understanding of this Phase II waterline project is that the water system desire to construct the
    remainder of the Patsey Marley Subdivision Waterline from station 25+76 to 40+00 (sheets C-3to
    C-6) and station 3+00 to 4+42 (sheet C-7) with 10-inch HDPE C-900 pipe. Water system will
    complete the work in the fall of 2018 to the extent and the remainder will once again commence
    construction next year. The plan approval for the future pump station will be submitted for a
    separate approval.

    We have completed our review of the plans and specifications, stamped and signed by Darin
    Hawkes, P.E., and dated September 12, 2018, and find they basically comply with the applicable
    portions of Utah’s Administrative Rules for Public Drinking Water Systems in R309. Hydraulic
    Analysis Certification for this project was stamped and singed by Darin Hawkes, P.E., was
    received by the Division on May, 30, 2017. On this basis, the plans for to construct Patsey
    Marley Subdivision Phase II Waterline project are hereby approved.

    Patsey Marley will be a new community water system and has yet to go through all the

                                          195 North 1950 West • Salt Lake City, UT
                             Mailing Address: P.O. Box 144830 • Salt Lake City, UT 84114-4830
                            Telephone (801) 536-4200 • Fax (801-536-4211 • T.D.D. (801) 903-3978
                                                        www.deq.utah.gov
                                                 Printed on 100% recycled paper
                                                                                          Page 36 of 86

Charles Livsey
Page 2 of 2
October 1, 2018


requirements that will be set forth in Welcome to the Club Letter (WTTC) including plan approval
process of entire water system, Capacity Development, Cross Connection program, Operator
Certification, Monitoring and Reporting requirement in a timely basis. After satisfactory
completion of these requirements and after final inspection of the entire system, an
operating permit will be issued to Patsey Marley Water System.

Approvals or permits by local authority or county may be necessary before beginning construction
of this project. As the project proceeds, notice of any changes in the approved design, as well as
any change affecting the quantity or quality of the delivered water, must be submitted to the
Division. We may also conduct interim and final inspections of this project. Please notify us when
actual construction begins so that these inspections can be scheduled.

This approval must be renewed if construction has not begun or if substantial equipment has not
been ordered within one year of the date of this letter.

If you have any questions regarding this letter, please contact Nagendra Dev, of this office, at
(801) 536-0098, or Nathan Lunstad, Permitting Section Manager, of this office, at (385) 239-
5974.

Sincerely,



Nathan Lunstad, P.E.
Engineering Manager
NDev/nl/hb

Enclosure ─ Operating Permit Checklist

cc: Royal Delegge, Env. Director, Salt Lake County Health Department, rdelegge@slco.org
    Charles Livsey, Patsey Marley Water System, clivsey@RQU.com
    Darin Hawkes, AQUA Engineering, darinh@aquaeng.com
    Nagendra Dev, Division of Drinking Water, ndev@utah.gov

DDW-2018-010405.docx
                                                                                            Page 37 of 86



 Utah Division of Drinking Water ― Checklist for Issuing Operating Permits
Water System Name:                                                     System Number:

Project Description:                                                   File Number:

Items 1 through 8 below must be submitted to the Division and found to be acceptable prior to
operating permit issuance (unless a water line project meets the requirements of R309-500-7 and
is not required to obtain an Operating Permit).

Distribution lines (not including in-line booster pump stations) requiring Plan Approval may be
placed into service prior to submitting all of the following items and receipt of Operating Permit
if the water system has received items 1 and 4 below.

☐ 1. Certification of Rule Conformance by a professional engineer (P.E.) that all conditions of
     Plan Approval were accomplished, and if applicable, changes made during construction
     were in conformance with rules R309-500 through 550
☐ 2. As-built or record drawings incorporating all changes to approved plans and
     specifications (unless no changes were made to the previously approved plans during
     construction)
☐ 3. Confirmation that as-built or record drawings have been received by the water system
☐ 4. Satisfactory bacteriological samples as evidence of proper disinfection and flushing in
     accordance with the appropriate ANSI/AWWA standards:
       ☐ ANSI/AWWA C651-14 AWWA Standard for Disinfecting Water Mains
               Two consecutive sample sets at least 16 hours apart, none positive (e.g., every
               1,200 feet, end-of-line, each branch)
       ☐ ANSI/AWWA C652-11 AWWA Standard for Disinfection of Water-Storage Facilities
               One or more samples, none positive
       ☐ ANSI/AWWA C653-13 AWWA Standard for Disinfection of Water Treatment
         Plants
               Two consecutive samples per unit, none positive, no less than 30 minutes apart
       ☐ ANSI/AWWA C654-13 AWWA Standard for Disinfection of Wells
               Two consecutive samples, none positive, no less than 30 minutes apart
☐ 5. Water quality data, where appropriate [For example, include raw and finished water data that
       demonstrate satisfactory performance of the treatment facility; sample should be taken from a
       storage tank for residual volatile organic compounds after tank interior re-coating; etc.]
☐ 6. If applicable, all other documentation that may have been required during the plan review
     process
☐ 7. If applicable, confirmation that the water system owner has received the O&M manual
     for the new facility
☐ 8. If applicable, location data of new storage tank, treatment facility, or source
                                                                                                    Page 38 of 86

                                Department of
                             Environmental Quality
                                    Kimberly D. Shelley
                                     Executive Director
 State of Utah
  SPENCER J. COX             DIVISION OF DRINKING WATER
     Governor                          Tim Davis
                                        Director
DEIDRE HENDERSON
 Lieutenant Governor




     November 7, 2023

     Charles Livsey
     Patsey Marley Water System
     36 South State Street, Suite 1400
     Salt Lake City, Utah 84111

     Subject: Renewal of Plan Approval, Patsey Marley 200 K Storage Tank (ST001), Patsey Marley
              Pump Station (PF001), Fire Pump Station & Valving Station (PF002) and distribution
              water line project; System #18163, File # 12591.

     Dear Charles Livsey:

     The Division of Drinking Water (the Division) received a request from your consultant Daniel
     Woodbury of Aqua Engineering for the renewal of the Plan Approval letter that was issued by the
     Division on July 19, 2022. Per Danieal Woodbury, requisite approvals for the construction from
     local entities are still in progress but are expected to be finished by the Summer of 2024 after
     which construction will begin.

     Previously, the Division received the re-revised plans and specifications for the Patsey Marley 200
     K Storage Tank (ST001), Patsey Marley Pump Station (PF001), fire pump station & valving
     station (PF002) and distribution water line project from your consultant Aqua Engineering on
     November 11, 2021. Darin Hawkes, P.E. of Aqua Engineering certified the results of the
     hydraulic analysis, and that the hydraulic model indicates compliance with the flow and pressure
     requirements for public drinking water systems. An updated version of drawings and
     specifications were received by the Division on November 18, 2021. The original plans and
     specifications were approved by the Division on June 30, 2021. This revised plan submission is
     due to a change in the location of the pump stations along with the pipeline orientation needed
     from the water system. This project has met the conditions for receiving plan approval.

     Our understanding of the project is that Patsey Marley plans to develop 10 service connections,
     which will serve 30 permanent residents. This proposed system will receive water from the Town
     of Alta’s (System#18049) Bay City Tunnel (WS001). In the process of the development of the
     water infrastructure, Patsey Marley has already installed 1,800 feet of 12-inch diameter HDPE



                                           195 North 1950 West • Salt Lake City, UT
                               Mailing Address: P.O. Box 144830 • Salt Lake City, UT 84114-4830
                             Telephone (801) 536-4200 • Fax (801-536-4211 • T.D.D. (801) 903-3978
                                                         www.deq.utah.gov
                                                  Printed on 100% recycled paper
                                                                                          Page 39 of 86

Charles Livsey
Page 2 of 4
November 7, 2023


PE4710 DR11 water line from the water tank to the parking structure where the pump station is
proposed. This was all in Phase I construction. Current approval is going to be for Phase II
construction which includes a storage tank, pump station, fire pump, valving station, and
distribution line which can be seen below.

Patsey Marley 200 K Storage Tank (ST001)

Patsey Marley is proposing to construct a new 200 K water storage tank to support culinary
demands for 10 service connections. The storage tank will be located at the hill above the service
connection at an elevation of about 9007 feet. This tank will provide adequate pressure to the
service connections by gravity and is designed for a fire flow storage of 180,000 gallons plus
20,000 gallons to supply average day demand and will primarily serve indoor and outdoor
drinking water demands. Water for this new tank will be delivered via a new Patsey Marley Pump
Station (PF001that will be drawing water from Bay City Tunnel (WS001) of Alta Town Water
System (System#18049). The Patsey Marley 200 K Storage Tank (ST001) is a below-ground
concrete tank with inlet/outlet piping, appurtenances, site work, drain/overflow piping, and piping
connected to PF001 by 10-inch diameter HDPE DR11 pipe. The pump station PF001 is located
about 700 feet (downhill) below the tank on Albion Basin Rd. The tank has a common inlet/outlet
pipe that serves water to the service connections by the 10-inch pipeline. The tank dimensions are
46 feet (inside diameter) by 19.5 feet tall. The height of the overflow to the bottom of the tank is
17 feet.

Patsey Marley Pump Station (PF001)

The Patsey Marley Pump Station (PF001) will be constructed at the base of the hill on Albion
Basin Rd at about 8,800 feet in elevation. There will be two Grundfos Booster Pac Hydro MPC-E
pumps (1 duty, 1 standby) rated at 5 HP each, which will deliver water at 20 gallons per minute
(gpm) with a total dynamic head (TDH) of 205 feet to the Patsey Marley 200 K Storage Tank
(ST001). These pumps will be fed by the 10-inch diameter HDPE pipe from the Bay City Tunnel
(WS001).

Fire Pump Station and Valving Station (PF002)

The Patsey Marley Fire Pump Station and Valving Station (PF002) will be a two-level structure
constructed adjacent to the Patsey Marley Tank (ST001) and will contain a 350 KW natural gas
generator, a 125 hp, 2,000 gpm fire pump, a 5 hp, 10 gpm duty pump, and valving/piping to
provide the various flow scenarios and demands that the system will encounter. The location of
the Storage Tank (ST001) is essentially at the same elevation as the five upper elevation lots (Lots
106, 107, 108, 109, and 110) of the subdivision. The fire flow storage requirement is provided by
the tank, but the flow rate and pressure require that a 125 hp pump be installed to provide these
requirements. A much smaller duty (or jockey) pump is designed to meet the average and peak
daily demands of the upper lot connections. The smaller duty pump is a 5 hp, 10 gpm rated pump.
These two pumps, along with the system valving and piping are housed in the lower (below grade)
                                                                                         Page 40 of 86

Charles Livsey
Page 3 of 4
November 7, 2023


level of the building, while the 350 KW generator is in the at-grade level of the building. The 350
KW generator is to provide emergency backup power for the 125 hp fire pump in the event of a
power outage.

Distribution Line

This project will add approximately 1,500 feet of 10-inch diameter HDPE (DR11) pipeline from
Patsey Marley 200 K Storage Tank (ST001) to 10 service connections. 1,475 feet of water line
was already approved and installed in Phase I construction. This is the remaining pipeline to
complete water line connections to service connections. There will be five fire hydrants, one PRV
connection, and one air vac in the distribution system. The holistic hydraulic model design of the
project was done by Water Gems Edition 10 software which meets the pressure requirement set
forth in R309-105-9.

We have completed our review of the plans and specifications, stamped, and signed by Darin
Hawkes, P.E., and dated November 18, 2021, and find they basically comply with the applicable
portions of Utah’s Administrative Rules for Public Drinking Water Systems in R309. The
Hydraulic Analysis Certification for this project was stamped and signed by Darin Hawkes, P.E.,
and was received by the Division on November 18, 2021. On this basis, the renewal of plan
approval to construct the Patsey Marley 200 K Storage Tank (ST001), Patsey Marley Pump
Station (PF001), fire pump station & valving station (PF002), and distribution water line
project is hereby approved.

This approval pertains to construction only. An Operating Permit must be obtained from the
Director before the Patsey Marley 200 K Storage Tank (ST001), Patsey Marley Pump
Station (PF001), fire pump station & valving station (PF002) and distribution water line
may be put in service. A checklist outlining the items required for operating permit issuance is
enclosed for your information.

Approvals or permits from the local authority or the county may be necessary before beginning
construction of this project. As the project proceeds, notice of any changes in the approved design,
as well as any change affecting the quantity or quality of the delivered water, must be submitted to
the Division. We may also conduct interim and final inspections of this project. Please notify us
when actual construction begins so that these inspections can be scheduled.

This approval must be renewed if construction has not begun or if substantial equipment has not
been ordered within one year of the date of this letter.
                                                                                         Page 41 of 86

Charles Livsey
Page 4 of 4
November 7, 2023


If you have any questions regarding this approval, please contact Nagendra Dev, of this office, at
(801) 680-5296, or me at (385) 515-1464.

Sincerely,




Michael Newberry, P.E.
Engineering Manager
ND/mrn/mdb

Enclosures –   Operating Permit Checklist

cc: Matthias Neville, Salt Lake County Health Department, mrneville@slco.org
    Charles Livsey, Patsey Marley Water System, clivsey@RQU.com
    Darin Hawkes, AQUA Engineering, darinh@aquaeng.com
    Daniel Woodbury, AQUA Engineering, dan.woodbury@aquaeng.com
    Nagendra Dev, Division of Drinking Water, ndev@utah.gov
DDW-2023-040579
                                                                                            Page 42 of 86



 Utah Division of Drinking Water ― Checklist for Issuing Operating Permits
Water System Name:                                                     System Number:

Project Description:                                                   File Number:

Items 1 through 8 below must be submitted to the Division and found to be acceptable prior to
operating permit issuance (unless a water line project meets the requirements of R309-500-7 and
is not required to obtain an Operating Permit).

Distribution lines (not including in-line booster pump stations) requiring Plan Approval may be
placed into service prior to submitting all of the following items and receipt of Operating Permit
if the water system has received items 1 and 4 below.

☐ 1. Certification of Rule Conformance by a professional engineer (P.E.) that all conditions of
     Plan Approval were accomplished, and if applicable, changes made during construction
     were in conformance with rules R309-500 through 550
☐ 2. As-built or record drawings incorporating all changes to approved plans and
     specifications (unless no changes were made to the previously approved plans during
     construction)
☐ 3. Confirmation that as-built or record drawings have been received by the water system
☐ 4. Satisfactory bacteriological samples as evidence of proper disinfection and flushing in
     accordance with the appropriate ANSI/AWWA standards:
       ☐ ANSI/AWWA C651-14 AWWA Standard for Disinfecting Water Mains
               Two consecutive sample sets at least 16 hours apart, none positive (e.g., every
               1,200 feet, end-of-line, each branch)
       ☐ ANSI/AWWA C652-11 AWWA Standard for Disinfection of Water-Storage Facilities
               One or more samples, none positive
       ☐ ANSI/AWWA C653-13 AWWA Standard for Disinfection of Water Treatment
         Plants
               Two consecutive samples per unit, none positive, no less than 30 minutes apart
       ☐ ANSI/AWWA C654-13 AWWA Standard for Disinfection of Wells
               Two consecutive samples, none positive, no less than 30 minutes apart
☐ 5. Water quality data, where appropriate [For example, include raw and finished water data that
       demonstrate satisfactory performance of the treatment facility; sample should be taken from a
       storage tank for residual volatile organic compounds after tank interior re-coating; etc.]
☐ 6. If applicable, all other documentation that may have been required during the plan review
     process
☐ 7. If applicable, confirmation that the water system owner has received the O&M manual
     for the new facility
☐ 8. If applicable, location data of new storage tank, treatment facility, or source
                                                                                                Page 43 of 86


Board of Trustees                   Cottonwood Improvement District                                  General Manager
Wesley Fisher                               8620 South Highland Drive                                Gregory B. Neff
Kim Galbraith                                  Sandy, Utah 84093
Mark R. Katter                              Telephone (801) 943-7671
                                               Fax (801) 943-1077




       July 20, 2023

       Jason Boal
       Snell & Wilmer L.L.P.
       15 W. South Temple
       Salt Lake City, Utah 84101

       Dear Mr. Boal,

       Per your request, I am updating the Districts previous letter dated July 13, 2021 regarding
       capacity for the Patsey Marley Hill Subdivision.

       The Cottonwood Improvement District has an agreement with Service Area No. 3 and the Town
       of Alta to collect all the wastewater near the mouth of Little Cottonwood Canyon from these
       two entities and convey it to the Central Valley Water Reclamation facility.

       I have reviewed the plat of the proposed Patsy Marley Hill Subdivision and determined that the
       Cottonwood Improvement District has sufficient capacity in its collection system to convey the
       wastewater from the 10 residential lots shown on the plat.

       In addition to Cottonwood Improvement District approval, you will need to obtain a letter of
       sewer availability from the Town of Alta. Before any construction on the sewer line can begin,
       sewer system engineering plans must be submitted and approved by the District and the Town.
       All submittals must go to the Town of Alta first.

       Sincerely,




       Gregory B. Neff
       General Manager/District Engineer
Page 44 of 86
Page 45 of 86
Page 46 of 86
                                                                                            Page 47 of 86




                                                                          Date: 06/22/2021


TO: Jason Boal

RE: Alta, UT


Dear: Jason

Recently you approached CenturyLink about providing a “will serve” letter to serve the
developer of Patsey Marley Hill Subdivision; CenturyLink appreciates the opportunity to
provide the location with its future communication needs. In response to the request for a
commitment to serve, CenturyLink will work with Jason Boal, on determining what the needs
will be. Upon such determination, CenturyLink will undertake an analysis of the construction
required and the cost to complete that construction. It is only at that point, and given the
prevailing Terms and Conditions of the Price List that CenturyLink will make a determination
whether it can or cannot provide service.

As you may or may not know, many of the telecommunications services provided by
CenturyLink are regulated and the service you request will be provided for under the prevailing
Terms and Conditions of the Price List and posted on our CenturyLink web site.

If there are any further questions, or if I can be of any help, please do not hesitate to call me on
435.623.4252 or my cell 435.660.9604. The CenturyLink Engineer will work with you on the
requirements.

Sincerely,

Tyse Ostler
OSP Engineer
CenturyLink
                                                                                   Page 48 of 86
                                                                                              4000281
           Snoll & Wilmer L.L.P.
               One Arizoia Oenter
             Phoenix, AZ 85004-0001
                                                                           Date:   January n,2Q25




Pay: Four hundred twenty-six and 00/1                                                $ **426,00***
                                                 :,




PAY
TO THE    Town of Alta
ORDER OF: PO Box 8016
          Sandy, UT 84092




                 il'ool.ooo eB L[. r: L e e Looo eLr:   otal il ? I ltt'
                                                  Page 49 of 86




Alta Patsey MarleyParcel
                July 17, 2025




      Alta Patsey Marley, Alta UT July 15, 2025                   1
                                                                                                         Page 50 of 86




Patsey Marley Development Alternative                              Recent History

2014                                                                 March 2023
•Settlement agreement vesting Estate with right to                   •Town Council work session to review 9/2022 plan
 develop 10 single family homes on 25 acre property.                 July 2024
2019                                                                 •Conceptual plan amended to further shrink
•Ownership internally started exploration of condo-                   building and remove hotel component,
 hotel alternative to single family homes.                           •Preliminary version of current proposal presented
                                                                      to Salt Lake City Public Utilities to begin
July 2021
                                                                      discussion of culinary water service to the
•Town Council Work Session
                                                                      development.
•Review of conceptual plan with 48 hotel rooms and
 34 condos
•Visual impact comparison with 10 single family
 homes
April 2022
•Ownership obtained all but Town or Town- Authorized
 signatures on 10 Lot mylar
September 2022
•Alternative design prepared with 50 hotel rooms and
 25 condos.
•Building massing improved and building height
 reduced.
•Interior program further refined to address luxury
 hotel requirements
                                          Alta Patsey Marley, Alta UT July 15, 2025
•Visual impact studies updated.
                                                                                                    Page 51 of 86




Patsey Marley Development Alternative
                                                            February 2025 – Salt Lake City Public Utilities
November 2024
                                                            • SLCPU Supportive of Conservation Easement
• Proposed plat and rezoning of 6.5 acres of site
  to FM-20.
                                                            March 2025 – Public Open House
• Site size dictated by Lot Coverage requirements.
                                                            • Updated renderings provided
• 1.5 acres above Summer Road is included in
                                                            • Survey results showed overwhelming public support
  development lot, but this area would be subject
  to a conservation easement precluding                     April 2025 – AQUA Technical Memo
  development.                                              • Technical water memo submitted to DDW regarding
• Proposed density capped at 85,000 sf saleable               water demands for condo project.
  condos.
• Proposed density maximum 29 condos plus                   June 2025 – DDW Temporary Exception to R309-
  minimum 3 workforce housing units.                        510-7
• Roof height capped at USGS 8875’.                         • DDW provided support memo for water calculations
                                                              for condo project.
January 2025 – Planning Commission & Site Visit
• Visual location of proposal.
                                                            June 2025 – Forest Service Meeting
• Drone demonstration of height.
                                                            • Reviewed process for alternative driveway
• Items to further discuss:
                                                            • Consultants actively working on materials for Forest
   • Access
                                                              Service Application
   • Water
   • Conservation Easement
   • Community Benefits
   • Visual Renderings
                                        Alta Patsey Marley, Alta UT July 15, 2025
                                                                                                                                                         Page 52 of 86




                                                          H A WK   HI L L R O A D




                                                                                                       LOT 2
                                                                                                      ~18.6AC




                                                  LOT 1
                                                 ~6.5AC




                                                                                                                                P R O P E R TY L I N E




Aerial | Topography                                                                 Alta Patsey Marley, Alta UT July 15, 2025
Alta Patsey Marley, Alta U T December 06, 2024
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Page 53 of 86




                                                          H A WK    H I LL    R O AD




                                                                                  CONSERVATION
                                                                               PROPOSED      CONSERATION
                                                                               E A S E M EN TON
                                                                               EASEMENT       ONLOT
                                                                                                 LOT11




                                                                                                                                           LOT 2
                                                                                                                                          ~18.6AC




                                                  LOT 1
                                                 ~6.5AC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       9090

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 90
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0


                                                                  LOT 1 N E T
                                                              DEVELOPABLE AREA                                                                                                                                                          90
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  906   0
                                                                    ~3.3AC                                                                                                     89 89
                                                                                                                                                                                  7                                     90 905
                                                                                                                                                                          89                                              4   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                               6 0     898                                0
                                                                                                                                                                    894        0               89
                                                                                                                                          88    89                        50                 0 9              90 3900
                                                                                                                           88       888                                                                 90
                                                                                                                                                0                    0                           0   90   2
                                                                                                                           7               90                                                           1
                                                                                                                                                 0             89                                              0
                                                              Project Site                                 88   5
                                                                                                                 88
                                                                                                                      88
                                                                                                                      6
                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                0     0
                                                                                                                                                     1
                                                                                                                                                      89
                                                                                                                                                     0 0
                                                                                                                                                         2
                                                                                                                                                           89
                                                                                                                                                              0 3                                     00 0

                                                                                                            4   0
                                                                                                    88 0
                                                                                               88 3 0
                                                                                                2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        P R OP E R T YL IN E
                                                                                                0
                                                                                         88
                                                                                          1
                                                                                   88     0
                                                                              87    0
                                                                                    0
                                                                        87     9
                                                                               0
                                                                   87    80
                                                                    7
                                                                    0




Aerial | Contextual Site Map                                                            Alta Patsey Marley, Alta UT July 15, 2025
Alta Patsey Marley, Alta U T December 06, 2024
                                            Page 54 of 86




                                  8




Alta Patsey Marley, Alta UT July 15, 2025
                                                                                                                                                         Page 55 of 86




                                                          H A WK   H I LL   R O AD




                                                                                 CONSERVATION
                                                                             PROPOSED      CONSERVATION
                                                                              E A S E M EN ON
                                                                             EASEMENT      T ON LOT
                                                                                              LOT 11




                                                                                                           LOT 2
                                                                                                          ~18.6AC




                                                  LOT 1
                                                 ~6.5AC




                                                                                                                                  P R OP E R T YL IN E




Aerial | Proposed Development with All Constrains                                     Alta Patsey Marley, Alta UT July 15, 2025
Alta Patsey Marley, Alta U T December 06, 2024
                                                                                                                                                         Page 56 of 86




                                                                                                                                  TOTAL BUILTFOOTPRINT    59,100 SF
                                                                                                                                  LOT 1 AREA              283,759 SF (6.5ACRES)
                                                                                                                                  LOT COVERAGE            21%




                                                          H A WK   H I LL   R O AD




                                                                                 CONSERVATION
                                                                            PROPOSED      CONSERVATION
                                                                              E A S E M ENON
                                                                            EASEMENT       T ON LOT
                                                                                              LOT 1 1




                                                                                                          LOT 2
                                                                                                         ~18.6AC




                                                  LOT 1
                                                 ~6.5AC




                                                                                                                                  P R OP E R T YL IN E




Aerial | Proposed Development                                                         Alta Patsey Marley, Alta UT July 15, 2025
Alta Patsey Marley, Alta U T December 06, 2024
                                                                                                                                                         Page 57 of 86




                                                                                                                                  TOTAL BUILTFOOTPRINT    60,428 SF
                                                                                                                                  LOT 1 AREA              283,759 SF (6.5ACRES)
                                                                                                                                  LOT COVERAGE            21%




                                                          H A WK   H I LL   R O AD




                                                                                 CONSERVATION
                                                                            PROPOSED      CONSERVATION
                                                                              E A S E M ENON
                                                                            EASEMENT       T ON LOT
                                                                                              LOT 1 1




                                                                                                          LOT 2
                                                                                                         ~18.6AC




                                                  LOT 1
                                                 ~6.5AC




                                                                                                                                  P R OP E R T YL IN E




Aerial | Proposed Development (Alternate Driveway)                                    Alta Patsey Marley, Alta UT July 15, 2025
Alta Patsey Marley, Alta U T December 06, 2024
                                                                                                             Page 58 of 86




                                                                                                            1    Arrival Court
                                                                                                            2    Entry / Vestibule
                                                                                                            3    Resi Concierge / Sales
                                                                                                            4    Restroom
                                                                                                            5    Skier Lounge
                                                                                                            6    Ski Storage
                                                                                                            7    Condo
                                                                                                            8    Apres Bar
                                                                                                            9    Resi Lounge / Dining
                                                                                                            10   Ski Beach
                                                                                                            11   Kitchen / BOH / MEP
                                                                                                            12   BOH
                                                                                                            13   Service Elevator
                                                                                                            14   Ski Valet Access

                                                                                 1

                                                                                                  12
                                                                                         4              6
                                                                                     2
                                                                             3

                                                                    11
                                                                                         5             14
                                                               13
                                                 CONDO 1
                                                 3663 NSF
                                                                         8
                                                 7                                           10



                                                     HOT TUB        9
                                                      BELOW




                                                                HOT TUB
                                                                 BELOW




Floor Plan | Level 1 +8795(Arrival)                             Alta Patsey Marley, Alta UT July 15, 2025
Alta Patsey Marley, Alta U T December 06, 2024
                                                                                                                                             Page 59 of 86




                                                                                                        T.O.R +8875'


                                                                                        CONDO PENTHOUSE                      15'    LEVEL 6 +8860'
                                                                            CONDO                                            12'    LEVEL 5 +8848'
                                                                            CONDO                                            12'    LEVEL 4 +8836'

                                                                            CONDO                                            12'    LEVEL 3 +8824'

                                                                            CONDO                                  MEP       12'    LEVEL 2 +8812'

                                                     CONDO                  ARRIVAL / CONDO AMENITY                STORAGE   17'    LEVEL 1 +8795'

                                                     CONDO                  WORKFORCE HOUSING / GARAGE / SERVICE             12'   LEVEL B1 +8783'
                                                 FITNESS /TREATMENT   MEP                                                    12'   LEVEL B2 +8771'
                                                 ROOM / HOT TUBS /
                                                 ADA SUITE




Diagramatic Section                                               Alta Patsey Marley, Alta UT July 15, 2025
Alta Patsey Marley, Alta U T December 06, 2024
                                                                                                                                 Page 60 of 86




Patsey Marley Development Alternative
1. Preservation of Patsey Marley Hill
 • 18.6 acre parcel above Summer Road protected with Conservation Easement.
 • 6.5 acre parcel rezoned for condo development, with 1.5 acres of parcel above Summer Road protected with Conservation Easement.
2. Building height consistent with Snowpine lodge (25’ above Summer Road)
 • FM-20 Zone permits height as approved by Planning Commission.
 • Proposed project consolidates density in small corner of 25 acre property, pushing up height in that corner and leaving 20 acres above Summer
   Road untouched.
3. Proposed Density
 • Project limited to maximum 29 condos with maximum 85,000 sf salable area.
 • Project limited to maximum 132 bedrooms/guest rooms.
4. Workforce Housing
 • Project proposing minimum 3 workforce housing units with minimum 8 bedrooms in addition to the salable condo units.
5. Access
 • Widen shared section of Summer Road for OSV on NE (high) side with pavement for cars on SW (low) side.
 • Widen Summer Road on Patsey Marley property for OSV parking just past start of project driveway.
 • Alternative separate driveway is possible, but subject to cooperation from USFS and Ski Corp.
6. Water
 • Based on water meter data from similar properties in Deer Valley, proposed condo project should use less water than is currently allocated to the
   10 approved single family lots.
 • Project team pulling water consumption data from properties within Town of Alta for comparison.
 • Salt Lake Public Utilities has provided letter confirming support for project.
 • DDW has granted exception based on consultant’s analysis.
 • SLCPU has reviewed consultant report and DDW exception and is supportive of proposed condo alternative.
7. Summary
 • Proposed rezoning facilitates preservation of 20 acres of Patsey Marley Hill.
 • Development Agreement would clarify entitlements and obligations for property.
 • Final building design subject to Conditional Use Permit.

                                                         Alta Patsey Marley, Alta UT July 15, 2025
                                                                                             Page 61 of 86




Patsey Marley Development Alternative



 Item              10 SFH as approved         Condominium Condition Preferred Condominium
                   Condition                                        Condition



 Access            Winter maintained          Similar drive approach as        New access, connected to
                   driveway to parking        10 SFH option, except            ASL maintenance drive,
                   area (20 spaces or         that driveway drops off          paralleling and below the
                   parking structure).        summer road 400 feet             summer road.
                                              from the gate.




                                   Alta Patsey Marley, Alta UT July 15, 2025
                                            Page 62 of 86




Alta Patsey Marley, Alta UT July 15, 2025
                                            Page 63 of 86




Alta Patsey Marley, Alta UT July 15, 2025
                                                               Page 64 of 86




Community Benefits:

1. Over 80% of property left in natural state.
2. Conservation easement on 20 acres above Summer Road.
3. Interlodge agreement for additional refuge during storms.
4. Workforce housing - 3 units with minimum 8 bedrooms
5. Significant tax revenues.




            Alta Patsey Marley, Alta UT July 15, 2025
                                                                                               Page 65 of 86




TECHNICAL MEMORANDUM
TO:                    Nathan Lundstad, PhD, P.E.
                       Director, Utah Division of Drinking Water
                       Utah Department of Environmental Quality
FROM:                  Daniel Woodbury, P.E.
REVIEWED BY:           Darin Hawkes, P.E, Principal
DATE:                  April 10, 2025                                              4/10/2025


SUBJECT:               Patsey Marley Project
PROJECT NO.:           001628.C


BACKGROUND
The historical background concerning the application for approval of development of the Patsey Marley
property (owned by the Shrontz Estate) is a matter of record, including the settlement agreement
between the Town of Alta (Town), Salt Lake City Corporation (SLC) and the Estate. This settlement
agreement includes a water allocation of 800 gallons of potable water per day for each of the 10 single-
family homes allowed per the Town’s FR-1 Zone. This equates to an allotment of 8,000 gallons per
day for the entire development.

The purpose of this Technical Memorandum is to present the anticipated water usage requirements
for an alternative development other than the 10-lot single family development. The proposed, or
alternative, development includes construction of a condominium style structure to include up to 33
residential units. These units will be similar in size and scope to those constructed and occupied in
various other mountainous resort communities throughout the state. Specifically, this development will
be similar in size and scope to several at Deer Valley and one in Alta, Utah.

The proposed Patsey Marley Condominium Development will consist of:

                                   Units*                  Bedrooms               Square Footage
 Residential Condos                  29                        123                      84,000
 Workforce Housing                    3                         8                        4,200
 ADA Housing                          1                         1                        1,100
                 Total:              33

 Available water:
 8000 GPD                        242 GPD/ERC
*1 Unit = 1 ERC

The State of Utah Division of Drinking Water code (R309-510-5) allows for a request for “Reduction of
Sizing Requirements” which necessitates an analysis to establish the level of service, scope of the
development, and the proposed water usage of any such development so as not to exceed the 8,000
gallons per day usage. Therefore, following the criteria outlined in R309-510-5 we respectfully request
a review of the following data provided in this Technical Memorandum and a reduction in source sizing
requirements based on the steps outlined in R309-510-5.
                                                                                              Page 66 of 86
Patsey Marley Project
April 10, 2025
Page 2

In addition to the requirements of R309-510-5, we are including a copy of the “Information Needed for
Reduction in Source Sizing” checklist document with appropriate responses to each item. This
document was provided by the State Division of Drinking Water (February 2025) in response to a
request for guidance regarding the potential for obtaining an exception to the minimum sizing
requirements for the design of a new system. A copy of the email thread is included in the Appendix.

Responses to the requirements of R309-510-5 and the checklist document are provided below in red
text.

State Code:
R309. Environmental Quality, Drinking Water.
[…]
R309-510-5. Reduction of Sizing Requirements.
       (1) Water systems that want to use system-specific design criteria that are below the state’s
           minimum sizing requirements may submit a request for a reduction to the Director. Each
           request shall include supporting information justifying the reduction in source, storage, or
           pipeline sizing.
           - The owners, or its representatives, of the PM Development request a reduction in
               sizing requirements using system-specific design criteria that are below the state’s
               minimum sizing requirements. The supporting information required by this item (R309-
               510-5.(1) justifying the reduction is submitted below under the heading “Supporting
               Information.”

        (2) Depending on the reduction being sought, the supporting information may include actual
            water use data representing peak day demand, average day demand for indoor and
            irrigation uses, fire flow requirements established by the local fire code official, etc. Each
            reduction request and supporting information will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis
            because of the wide variety of factors to be considered, such as water system configuration
            and size, built-in redundancy, water user type, safety factors, method and quality of data
            collected, water losses, reliability of the source, etc.
            - The proposed development is solely an indoor usage demand, with no outside
                 landscaping or irrigation. It will be located on the Patsey Marley property adjacent to,
                 and part of the Town of Alta. Three similar developments currently existing and
                 occupied at the Deer Valley Ski Resort in Park City, Utah have provided water usage
                 data for the year 2023. The data set actually contains 18 months of information, which
                 helps identify trends leading up to and extending past the full year’s data set used for
                 the analysis. Additional data submitted includes an existing condominium complex in
                 the Town of Alta proper and also a single-family full-time residential home in Park City
                 to get a feel for typical usage at a single-family mountain setting – comparable to one
                 Equivalent Residential Connection (ERC).

        (3) Prior to collecting or compiling water use data for a reduction request, a public water
            system shall consult with the Division of Drinking Water to identify the information needed
            for a reduction request and to establish a data collection protocol.
            - Prior to collecting and compiling the water use data presented herein, contact was
                made with staff at the Division of Drinking Water to identify information needed for a
                reduction request and to establish a data collection protocol. One of the items received
                in February 2025 was the “Information Needed for Reduction in Source Sizing”
                checklist document discussed in the Background section above. The responses to the
                items outlined in that document are presented herein.




                                      Innovative Engineering Solutions
                                                                                               Page 67 of 86
Patsey Marley Project
April 10, 2025
Page 3

        (4) The data submitted for a source reduction request shall be sufficient to account for daily,
            seasonal, and yearly variations in source and demand.
            - As identified, the data collected covers an 18-month period for the existing
               developments that are used as “similar” examples for recreational use located in ski-
               resort community condominium complexes.

        (5) If data justifying a reduction are accepted by the Director, the sizing requirements may be
            reduced. The requirements shall not be less than the 90th percentile of acceptable
            readings.
            - Current water usage at each of the similar developments used for comparison is
                 significantly lower than the allowable usage set forth in the settlement agreement. The
                 requested reduction of use is lower than the State-wide guidance for recreational use
                 but is significantly higher than the site-specific metered usage of the similar
                 developments.

        (6) If a reduction is granted on the basis of limited water use, enforceable water use
            restrictions must be in place, shall be consistently enforced by the water system or local
            authority, and shall be accepted by the Director.
            - A de facto water use restriction is already in place, as a result of the development
                agreement. Our request is that the Director acknowledge and accept this agreement
                as being adequate to move forward with the plans for the development as proposed.

        (7) The Director may re-evaluate any reduction if the nature or use of the water system
            changes.
            - We concur that any changes to the nature and use of the water system, beyond that
               which is proposed herein, should prompt a re-evaluation of the water system plan and
               usage.

Supporting Information:
Similar condominium complexes include three separate developments at Deer Valley, Utah and one
in the Town of Alta. They are Argent, One Empire, Flagstaff, and Sugarplum Townhomes, respectively.
The following table summarizes the existing water consumptive use at each of these four
developments. Also included is a brief description of the type of water uses, the number of units in
each development, and the total square footage of each development so as to gain a clearer
understanding of the comparison being made. A summarized breakdown of each development by unit
and total number of bedrooms with a copy of the raw data is included in the appendix. Also included
is an aerial photograph of the Flagstaff Condominium to show the area of landscaping/lawn that is
maintained with that particular development.

                                      Argent        One           Flagstaff Condos    Sugarplum
                                      Condos        Empire                            Townhomes
                                                    Condos
 Total Square Footage                 68,500        67,000        75,500              54,600
 Total Number of Units                31            29            40                  26
 Average Unit Square Footage          2,210         2,310         1,888               2,100
 Additional Amenities                 Swimming      Swimming      Swimming Pool &     None
                                      Pool          Pool          Landscaping (sod)
 Total Annual Water Used (gallons)    988,732       1,423,277     2,550,000           502,970
 Average Daily Demand (GPD)           2,709         3,899         6,986               1,378
 Water per Unit (GPD per ERC)         87.4          134.5         174                 53




                                     Innovative Engineering Solutions
                                                                                       Page 68 of 86
Patsey Marley Project
April 10, 2025
Page 4

Adjusting the Flagstaff Condos by estimating the usage for outdoor irrigation of the grass and
swimming pool usage reduces the average demand per ERC to under 160 GPD.


                                             Single Family Home       Proposed Patsey Marley
                                                                      Development
 Total Square Footage                        4,500                    89,000
 Total Number of Units                       1                        33
 Average Unit Square Footage                 4,500                    2,697
 Additional Amenities                        none                     none
 Allowable Annual Water Use                  Winter only              2,929,000
 (gallons)
 Average Daily Available (GPD)               168                      8,000
 Available Water per Unit (GPD per ERC)      168                      242




                                   Innovative Engineering Solutions
                                                                                              Page 69 of 86
Patsey Marley Project
April 10, 2025
Page 5

INFORMATION NEEDED FOR REDUCTION IN SOURCE SIZING
Public Drinking Water Systems (PWSs) are required to have sufficient source capacity to meet both
(1) the anticipated water demand on the day of highest water consumption (“Peak Day Demand”) and
(2) the quantity needed for the entire year (“Average Yearly Demand”). Both demand types apply to
indoor water use and irrigation water use if a drinking water system also supplies irrigation water. The
Director may allow a reduced source sizing requirement per Utah Administrative Code R309-510-5 if
the water system presents sufficient and acceptable water specific data justifying the reduced source
requirement (instead of the default source requirements in R309-510-7). The reduction request and
the data supporting the request are reviewed on a case-by-case basis due to a wide variety of factors
to consider and differences in water systems.

Prior to collecting or compiling the data supporting a reduction request, the PWS representative should
consult with the Division of Drinking Water engineering staff to identify the information needed
for a reduction request and to establish a data collection protocol.

The list below outlines typical issues to address when requesting a reduction in the source sizing. The
review will include, but is not limited to, the issues identified below.

Intent of the Reduction Request
    ▪   Specifics of sizing reduction being sought (e.g., reduction in source sizing; reduction in peak
        day or yearly average demand, indoor water use, etc.)
        - Reduction in Average yearly demand for recreational use (condominiums at or near a ski
           resort). Hot tubs are available in some units. No outside uses. No landscaping or irrigation
           uses.
    ▪   Proposed reduced amount versus the default requirement.
        - Default requirement is: 400 gpd/ERC. Proposed is up to 242 gpd/ERC. See attached
           calculations and existing “similar” uses. Sources of similar existing uses are from similar
           condominiums, town homes, and housing at Deer Valley, UT, Park City, UT, and Alta, UT
           resorts.
Water System Type, Size, Complexity, and Water Use Demand
    ▪   Type of water system (e.g., community, non-community, etc.).
        - Community water system: Town of Alta (PWS #18049) will be the source supply of water
             to the development that consists of no more than 29 condominium units, 3 employee or
             “workforce” units, and 1 ADA unit, for a total of 33 units.
    ▪   Size and complexity of water system (e.g. number of sources, number of connections, area
        served, facilities, ability to move water from multiple locations)
        - Condo complex with 33 units to be served by Town of Alta water system, at a rate of not
             more than 8,000 gallons per day.
    ▪   Types and purposes of water use (e.g., industrial, residential, restaurant, camp ground, mixed
        use, etc.).
        - Residential use (33 condo units and one club house reception area)
    ▪   Water system configuration and operation strategy in providing redundancies (e.g., backup
        power, spare parts, number of sources, service area served by multiple tanks or sources, etc.).
        - Connection to Town of Alta water system which provides water from the Bay City mine,
             including the community’s redundancies. The development becomes another connection
             to this system with O&M being provided by the Town of Alta.
    ▪   Redundancy of water sources (e.g., emergency source, wholesale connection, etc.).
        - Town of Alta water system.
    ▪   Reliability and consistency of water sources (e.g., range of seasonal fluctuation of spring flows,
        reliability and availability of additional water sources, period of record, etc.).
        - Town of Alta water system.



                                      Innovative Engineering Solutions
                                                                                            Page 70 of 86
Patsey Marley Project
April 10, 2025
Page 6

Equivalent Residential Connections
    ▪   Rationale and methodology in determining number of Equivalent Residential Connections
        (ERCs) for present connections and estimated future connections (if ERCs are used in the
        calculations).
        - The average unit size is 2,697 square feet and is assumed to be roughly equivalent to the
            average single family home size in Utah, so 1 Unit = 1 ERC (assumed). No potential for
            future connections.
    ▪   Accounting of commercial, industrial, and other significant water uses if applicable.
        - Not applicable. (there are no additional water uses beyond the 33 condo units. No
            irrigation, no commercial uses, no industrial uses.)
Future Growth and Usage Projections
    ▪   Extent of the service area or the water system that is built out.
        - The extent of the service area will be limited to the single building, 33-unit condominium
             development. The property is subject to restrictions and concepts protecting designated
             lands and permissions controlled by the United States Forest Service (ie: wetlands,
             roadway access, etc.)
    ▪   History relevant to growth and water system capacity.
        - Water use and sizing was established by the 2014 Settlement Agreement between Town
             of Alta and the Shrontz Estate, with approval from Salt Lake City Corporation at the rate
             of 8,000 gallons per day.
    ▪   Future development and annexation potential within the service area of the water system.
        - Not applicable. (One-time development – no future annexations.)
    ▪   How future growth is determined and managed (e.g., zoning ordinances, established process
        in reviewing and approving new developments, master plans, etc.).
        - Future growth, beyond that presented with this development, is not applicable at this
             location. It is bounded by the Forest Service and/or the ski resort. Additionally, the Town
             of Alta zoning ordinances will not allow further growth to this area.
    ▪   Current demand versus capacity needed to meet obligated and future demands.
        - Not applicable. This is a proposed development and as such has no current water demand.

Indoor versus Irrigation Water Use
    ▪   Extent of service connections that are served by a secondary irrigation system versus the ones
        that do not have irrigation water use demand (i.e., the information needed to estimate the
        irrigation water use demand imposed on the drinking water system).
        - Not Applicable. (There is no irrigation water use.)
    ▪   How the indoor and irrigation water use data is separated and measured.
        - Not Applicable.
    ▪   Future plan for conversion from an irrigation system to drinking water or vice versa (if
        applicable).
        - Not Applicable.
    ▪   Urban versus rural (more irrigation use) land use.
        - Not Applicable.
Water Use Data
    ▪   Actual water use data indicative of peak day demand. (e.g., daily data from residential meters,
        daily metered/measured data from sources and storage sources, etc.)
        - Existing water use data from “similar” developments was obtained from several
            condominium developments in the Deer Valley, Park City, and Alta areas. See attached
            analysis.




                                     Innovative Engineering Solutions
                                                                                               Page 71 of 86
Patsey Marley Project
April 10, 2025
Page 7

    ▪   Actual data indicative of indoor water use during peak day demand (if use data includes
        indoor and irrigation use); how is it separated and accounted for.
        - See attached analysis.
    ▪   Types of water use data (i.e., metered at the service connections, metered at the sources or
        pump stations, etc.).
        - Water use data for the comparison project is metered at the service connection.
    ▪   Tank levels and associated water outflows during the study period if using water use data
        metered at the sources and pump stations.
        - Not available.
    ▪   Sufficient data to establish a statistically significant demand value (e.g., sufficient data points
        to represent or account for all or the majority of water uses; sufficient data points indicative of
        historical trend such as a minimum of 3 years; removing the outliers of non-usage service
        connections from the number of ERCs used for calculation when the water use data were
        metered at the service connections; etc.).
        - See the attached analysis.
Water Loss
    ▪   Assessment of water loss through the distribution system (if the water use data is metered at
        the service connections).
        - Not available
    ▪   Accounting of water loss in peak day estimates.
        - Not Available
Safety Factor
    ▪   Safety factors applied in the analysis and rationale.
        - The requested reduction is source sizing of 242 gpd/ERC is roughly 1.5x greater than the
           highest recorded average water demand of any of the comparable developments, and
           nearly 2.2x greater than the average of all four of the comparable developments.
    ▪   Examples
           o Redundant or excessive available storage capacity. N/A
           o Emergency connection to another water system. N/A
           o Reduced source sizing amount being 12% above the actual peak day indoor water use
                data. Not yet built so actual peak day indoor water use is not available.




APPENDICES
Appendix A       Argent Water Usage Summary
Appendix B       One Empire Water Consumption Summary
Appendix C       Flagstaff Water Consumption Summary
Appendix D       Flagstaff Condominium Photograph
Appendix E       Sugarplum Water Consumption Summary
Appendix F       Email thread




                                      Innovative Engineering Solutions
                                                                                            Page 72 of 86




Appendix A Argent Water Usage Summary

                                   Argent Water Usage
                      Water Read      Gallons

         12/15/2022      549,359

          1/15/2023      646,428       97,069

          2/15/2023      713,081       66,653

          3/15/2023      794,211       81,130

          4/15/2023      873,903       79,692

          5/15/2023      924,352       50,449

          6/15/2023      980,899       56,547

          7/15/2023    1,067,644       86,745

          8/15/2023    1,250,355      182,711 Pool/Irrigation
          9/15/2023    1,406,465      156,110 Pool/Irrigation

         10/15/2023    1,463,120       56,655

         11/15/2023    1,504,605       41,485

         12/15/2023    1,538,091       33,486                       988,732 2023 Total

          1/15/2024    1,640,559      102,468                         2,709 GPD (365)
          2/15/2024    1,714,276       73,717                   87.38241273 GPD/Unit (31)

          3/15/2024    1,720,601        6,325

          4/15/2024    1,804,482       83,881



 28 Condos

 2 Workforce/1
 ADA
                                                                                   Page 73 of 86




Appendix B One Empire Water Consumption

                                  One Empire Water Consumption
                     Water Read           Gallons

        11/15/2022    5,677,970

        12/15/2022    5,732,540            54,570

         1/15/2023    5,885,672           153,132

         2/15/2023    6,004,433           118,761

         3/15/2023    6,154,086           149,653

         4/15/2023    6,366,067           211,981 Drain pool?

         5/15/2023    6,541,740           175,673

         6/15/2023    6,610,601            68,861

         7/15/2023    6,730,653           120,052

         8/15/2023    6,850,033           119,380

         9/15/2023    6,956,286           106,253

        10/15/2023    7,077,333           121,047

        11/15/2023    7,114,300            36,967

        12/15/2023    7,155,817            41,517                  1,423,277 2023 Total
                                                                             Gallons
         1/15/2024    7,272,262           116,445                      3,899 GPD (365)

         2/15/2024    7,354,276            82,014                134.4616911 GPD/Unit (29)

         3/15/2024    7,462,003           107,727

         4/15/2024    7,556,375            94,372




 27 Condos

 1 Workforce/1 ADA
                                                                                   Page 74 of 86




Appendix C Flagstaff Water Consumption

                                  Flagstaff Water Consumption
                    Water Read          Gallons
       11/15/2022           7,341,005
       12/15/2022           7,438,325              97,320
        1/15/2023           7,677,364             239,039
        2/15/2023           7,863,270             185,906
        3/15/2023           8,096,231             232,961
        4/15/2023           8,344,973             248,742
        5/15/2023           8,617,367             272,394
        6/15/2023           8,833,013             215,646
        7/15/2023           9,098,413             265,400
        8/15/2023           9,339,762             241,349
        9/15/2023           9,497,056             157,294
       10/15/2023           9,719,821             222,765
       11/15/2023           9,891,723             171,902

       12/15/2023          10,027,372             135,649         2,589,047 2023 Total
                                                                            Gallon
        1/15/2024          10,305,652             278,280             7,093 GPD (365)
        2/15/2024          10,501,706             196,054       177.3319863 GPD/unit (40)

        3/15/2024          10,742,611             240,905

        4/15/2024          10,998,148             255,537
                                              Page 75 of 86




Appendix D Flagstaff Condominium Photograph
                                                                               Page 76 of 86




Appendix E     Sugarplum 2024 Water Consumption



Sugarplum 2024 Water Consumption

Unit      2024 Avg. Day    2023 Avg. Day   Unit Type                    Size

       1 45                12

       2 69                41                3 BD                              1770

       3 70                79                3 BD      Nightly Rental          2323

       4 66                69                3 BD      Nightly Rental          1926

       5 12                12

       6 67                127               4 BD      Nightly Rental

       7 7                 73                4 BD      Nightly Rental          1938

       8 22                15

       9 144               129

       10 8                19

       11 64               45

       12 27               18

       13 40               53

       14 50               38

       15 62               39                3 BD      Nightly Rental          2250

       16 105              69

       17 11               7

       18 57               58                3 BD      Nightly Rental          1900

       19 33               30

       20 61               71
                                                             Page 77 of 86
Appendix E
Page 2



         21 89       85

         22 9        15

         23 67       34      3 BD   Nightly Rental           2450

         24 77       86

         25 24       16

         26 96       123


 AVERAGE 53          52      GPD    Average Size     2,080


 TOTAL       1,381   1,364
                                                                                           Page 78 of 86




Appendix F      Email Thread Concerning Project


To:Douglas Ogilvy <douglas.ogilvy@gmail.com>;Jason Boal <jboal@swlaw.com>
Cc:Dan Woodbury
Fri 2/21/2025 12:13 PM
Doug and/or Jason,

Please clarify the location of the PC meeting on 2/26. Dan is planning to be in attendance as I will
be at a conference in St. George.

Darin Hawkes, P.E.
Principal

AQUA Engineering
533 W 2600 S Suite 275, Bountiful, UT 84010
M: 801.450.7592 | D: 801.683.3727

aquaeng.com


From: Douglas Ogilvy <douglas.ogilvy@gmail.com>
Sent: Wednesday, February 19, 2025 11:58 AM
To: Jason Boal <jboal@swlaw.com>
Cc: Darin Hawkes <darin.hawkes@aquaeng.com>; Dan Woodbury
<Dan.Woodbury@aquaeng.com>
Subject: Re: Reduction in Sizing Requirements - Patsey Marley Project

Thanks Jason!!!

D

Sent from my iPhone

On Feb 19, 2025, at 12:55 PM, Boal, Jason <jboal@swlaw.com> wrote:

Just to clarify, the meeting is on February 26th, 2025.

Jason Boal, AICP
Urban Planner

O: 801.257.1917 | M: 208.313.9493
jboal@swlaw.com

SNELL
& WILMER
swlaw.com | LinkedIn

From: Douglas Ogilvy <douglas.ogilvy@gmail.com>
Sent: Wednesday, February 19, 2025 11:46 AM
To: Darin Hawkes <darin.hawkes@aquaeng.com>
Cc: Boal, Jason <jboal@swlaw.com>; Dan Woodbury <Dan.Woodbury@aquaeng.com>
Subject: Re: Reduction in Sizing Requirements - Patsey Marley Project
                                                                                                 Page 79 of 86
Appendix F
Page 2



[EXTERNAL] douglas.ogilvy@gmail.com


Hi Darin,

Would you or Dan be available for Planning Commission 2/27 to answer questions related to this
proposed approach? Meeting is at 3:00 MT. If you can’t make it in person which would be
preferable, you could join by Zoom.

We are seeking a project approval with a condition of approval that DDW confirm we have enough
water for our private water system. We obviously won’t have DDW approval that quickly but Aqua
could speak to the process we will follow with DDW.

Please let me know on Planning Commission attendance so we can plan accordingly.

Thanks,

Doug.


Sent from my iPhone


On Feb 18, 2025, at 1:30 PM, Douglas Ogilvy <douglas.ogilvy@gmail.com> wrote:
Thanks Dustin

Jason and I will study what other data we can get from Alta. We will also gather additional Deer
Valley unit (2 full years for for each complex).

D.


Sent from my iPhone


On Feb 18, 2025, at 1:09 PM, Darin Hawkes <darin.hawkes@aquaeng.com> wrote:

Doug,

See below for the response from UDDW on a specific request for reduction of water demand
requirements. It appears this approach of using comparable data may be acceptable to the
division. I have attached the form Michael included which is essentially a checklist for items, or
information, they will require to consider the reduction exception. You mentioned you may be able
to acquire additional water use data for a location at Alta. If so, this would be helpful to our cause. If
not, we will plan to use the data from Deer Valley and will reach out if additional information is
required.

As per our last phone conversation, we will proceed with this formal request to the division unless
you tell us otherwise. We will plan to bill these efforts on a T&M basis to the existing project we
have established for Patsey Marley which is currently billed to RQN attention Charles Livsey. If this
is not the appropriate billing contact, please let me know.

I am out of the office all next week for a conference but Dan plans to dive into this shortly.
                                                                                             Page 80 of 86
Appendix F
Page 3



Darin Hawkes, P.E.
Principal

AQUA Engineering
533 W 2600 S Suite 275, Bountiful, UT 84010
M: 801.450.7592 | D: 801.683.3727

aquaeng.com



From: Michael Newberry <mnewberry@utah.gov>
Sent: Tuesday, February 18, 2025 10:20 AM
To: Darin Hawkes <darin.hawkes@aquaeng.com>
Cc: Dan Woodbury <Dan.Woodbury@aquaeng.com>
Subject: Re: Reduction in Sizing Requirements - Patsey Marley Project

Darin, thanks for the information. We've had an occasion or two with this request and as you've
pointed out, we would need an engineering report to back up the request. I think applying
similar water use to this scenario would be acceptable.

I've attached some information that might be helpful. Please let me know if this is helpful and if you
have any further questions.

Regards,

<image001.png>       Michael Newberry, P.E.
                     Permitting Section Manager | Division of Drinking Water
                     P: (385) 515-1464
                     drinkingwater.utah.gov



Emails to and from this email address may be considered public records and
thus subject to Utah GRAMA requirements.


On Tue, Feb 18, 2025 at 10:09 AM Darin Hawkes <darin.hawkes@aquaeng.com> wrote:
Mike,

I have a client located at the top of Little Cottonwood canyon, Patsey Marley Subdivision. In the
past, they have created a water system and submitted at least one project to the division for plan
approval. This project is a storage tank and pump station to service the proposed building lots with
indoor demand and fire flow. This development has a very long history, including litigation by the
landowner/developer and the Town of Alta. This litigation was settled years ago and resulted in a
development agreement which stipulates, among other items, the allowable allotment of water the
Town of Alta will supply via their sources (Bay City Mine) and storage facilities. This allotment is
capped at 8,000 gpd currently.

The owners have been working with the town and other stakeholders for the last several years to
come up with a plan that makes financial sense to the owners while maintaining as much open
                                                                                             Page 81 of 86
Appendix F
Page 4

space as possible as this is the town’s desire. The current idea is to construct a condominium
complex similar to those at Deer Valley (i.e. Empire One, Ardent, etc.). This complex would contain
33 units. From a water demand standpoint, this works out to be approximately 242 gpd/unit. There
have been several meetings between the Town, Owner and SLCDPU to work out the details,
including water demands which is where AQUA comes into play. Since there is no current
development at the site, there is not site-specific water demand or use data. However, with the
similarities of this project to those currently operating at Deer Valley and Park City (Empire One,
Ardent, etc.), the owner has suggested they be allowed to use this data to justify their proposed
water use. The town is amenable to this approach but asked that a third-party (AQUA) review the
data and provide an opinion.

I have told the owner that a reduction in demand would require an exception be granted by the
Division which brings us to this email. The data we were provided seems to justify a peak demand
significantly lower than 250 gpd/unit during peak months with an average demand in the range of 80-
120 gpd depending on the specific complex. Most of those provided also include some outdoor
irrigation which will not be part of the Patsey Marley project.

What is the Division’s appetite for granting reductions in demand exceptions (R309-510-5)? We can
supply the request for reduction along with supporting data from similar projects located in mountain
resort areas.

Thanks,

Darin Hawkes, P.E.
Principal

AQUA Engineering
533 W 2600 S Suite 275, Bountiful, UT 84010
M: 801.450.7592 | D: 801.683.3727

aquaeng.com

NOTICE: This email message is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain
confidential and privileged information. Any unauthorized review, use, disclosure, or distribution is
prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient, please contact the sender by reply email and
destroy all copies of the original message. The information transmitted (including attachments) is
covered by the Electronics Communications Privacy Act, 18 U.S.C. 2510-2521.

<Reduction in Source Sizing.docx>
                                                                                                      Page 82 of 86

                                Department of
                             Environmental Quality
                                       Tim Davis
                                    Executive Director
 State of Utah
  SPENCER J. COX
     Governor                DIVISION OF DRINKING WATER
                                Nathan Lunstad, Ph.D., P.E.
DEIDRE HENDERSON                        Director
 Lieutenant Governor




     June 5, 2025

     Sent via Email Only
     Charles Livsey
     Patsey Marley Water Company
     Salt Lake City, Utah 84414
     clivsey@rqu.com

     Subject: Temporary Exception to R309-510-7, Source Sizing.
              Patsey Marley Water System, System #18163, File #20897

                This Temporary Exception Expires on June 1, 2029.

     Dear Charles Livsey:

     On April 11, 2025, the Division of Drinking Water (the Division) received your request for an
     exception to Rule R309-510-7 regarding source sizing through your consultant Daniel
     Woodbury of Aqua Engineering. According to this rule, your water system is required to
     supply a source capacity of 800 gallons per day (gpd) per equivalent residential connection
     (ERC).

     The Division received the Technical Memorandum Report from your consultant, Aqua
     Engineering. The report was stamped, and signed by Daniel Woodbury, P.E. and dated April
     10, 2025. The updates on the project were received by Division staff on May 12, 2025.

     Exception Request

     According to Source Sizing Rule R309-510-7, system sources must be able to legally and
     physically supply minimum flows during Peak Day and Average Yearly demand scenarios.

     Patsey Marley is planning to have their own water system and is in the process for this
     designation. They are moving forward with their development plans and continue applying to
     the Town of Alta by addressing the Town's questions and conforming to the Town's
     requirements of development.


                                             195 North 1950 West • Salt Lake City, UT
                                Mailing Address: P.O. Box 144830 • Salt Lake City, UT 84114-4830
                               Telephone (801) 536-4200 • Fax (801-536-4211 • T.D.D. (801) 536-4414
                                                          www.deq.utah.gov
                                                   Printed on 100% recycled paper.
                                                                                          Page 83 of 86

Charles Livsey
Patsey Marley Water Company
Page 2 of 3
June 5, 2025


Per a technical memo provided by Aqua Engineering, the Settlement Agreement stipulates
that Salt Lake City (through the Salt Lake City Department of Public Utilities --SLCDPU)
will be the provider of the source water supply to Patsey Marley, and that this water will be
conveyed through the pipeline infrastructure of the Town of Alta up to the point of
demarcation. At that point, Patsey Marley will be responsible for the operation and
maintenance of the infrastructure. The Settlement Agreement limits the water consumption to
an average of 8,000 gpd on a 30-day billing period, or 240,000 gallons/month. For the 33-unit
development, this equates to 242 gpd/unit.

Water use data for four comparable developments was submitted to support the reduced
source sizing standard. Over a 24-month period for all four developments, there is only one
winter month where the flow exceeded 242 gpd/unit. This was at the Silver Strike condo (an
older building with possibly higher consumption uses) that reported consumption of 281,000
gallons from mid-December of 2023 through mid-January of 2024. This translates to 272
gpd/unit over a 31-day billing period. The prior year had a consumption of 219,000 gallons
over Christmas 2022 at approximately 235,000 gallons. None of the other three properties
exceeded 200 gpd/unit in the winter billing period. During the peak winter month, the other
three adjacent properties had a consumption of 38, 50, and 127 gpd/unit. The month prior to
the peak month at Silver Strike had a consumption of just 94 gpd/unit, and the month after the
peak month had a flow of 131 gpd/unit. This would suggest that a water storage tank designed
for the Patsey Marley project should be able to accommodate any possible fluctuation in
demand if it were to ever exceed the 242 gpd/unit, by ensuring the tank is filled prior to the
holiday period.

In analyzing the summer months usage, with no irrigation or outdoor usage allowed at the
Patsey Marley development, it is anticipated that the summer month consumptive use will be
much lower than the peak winter months use, which is targeted to be less than 242 gpd/unit.

On this basis, an exception (or exceptions) to R309-510-7, Source Sizing is hereby granted for
Patsey Marley Water System.

  1. This Temporary Exception expires on June 1, 2029.

  2. You must measure and record the peak day demand, starting in 2025 as soon as
     possible, and submit the data to the Division of Water Rights each following year.
     Three total years of data are required.

  3. This Temporary Exception may be rescinded at any time if new evidence indicates
     that the conditions of this exception are no longer being met or a public health
     risk exists due to this exception.

Please maintain a copy of this letter with your permanent records for future reference.
                                                                                     Page 84 of 86

Charles Livsey
Patsey Marley Water Company
Page 3 of 3
June 5, 2025


If you have any questions regarding this approval, please contact Nagendra Dev, P.E., of this
office, at (801) 680-5296, or Michael Newberry, P.E., Engineering Manager, at (385) 515-1464.

Sincerely,



Russell Seeley, P.E.
Assistant Director
ND/mrn/mdb


cc:    Jorge Mendez, Salt Lake County Health Department, jmendez@slco.org
       Charles Livsey, Patsey Marley Water System, clivsey@RQU.com
       Darin Hawkes, AQUA Engineering, darinh@aquaeng.com
       Dan Woodbury, AQUA Engineering, dan.woodbury@aquaeng.com
       Nagendra Dev, P.E., Division of Drinking Water, ndev@utah.gov
       Brandon Mellor, Division of Water Rights, bmellor@utah.gov
       Jen Yee, Division of Drinking Water, jyee@utah.gov

DDW-2025-005124
                                                                                                                              Page 85 of 86




                                                                                                                           Scott H. Martin
                                                                                                                      Direct Dial: 801-322-9161
                                                                                                                     smartin@spencerfane.com


                                                                  July 3, 2025


         Via e-mail only

         Town of Alta
         c/o Chris Cawley
         ccawley@townofalta.utah.gov
         Shawn Ferrin
         SFerrin@parsonsbehle.com

         Estate of JoAnne L. Shrontz
         c/o Wade Budge
         wbudge@swlaw.com

                   RE:        Patsey Marley Hill Property – Estate’s Rezone Application
                              SLC Comments re: 4/10/2025 Aqua Engineering Technical Memorandum and
                              6/5/2025 DDW Temporary Exception to R309-510-7

         Dear Town of Alta, Estate of JoAnne L. Shrontz and others it may concern:

                 As you are aware, this firm represents Salt Lake City Department of Public Utilities
         (SLC) in this matter. This letter follows my June 17, 2025 telephone conversation with Wade
         Budge regarding the above referenced documents in relation to the 8,000 gallons per day (gpd)
         requirement stated in the February 18, 2014 Stipulation and Motion, and Stipulated Order of the
         Third District Court concluding the Estate/TOA/SLC litigation. As I indicated to Wade, SLC
         appreciates the Estate’s prior indication that its’ condominium project underlying the rezone
         application meets the three conditions of paragraph 4.a. of the 2014 Stipulation and Order. I also
         indicated to Wade that SLC has a few concerns about the Aqua Engineering Technical
         Memorandum (Aqua Memo) and the DDW Temporary Exception that followed. These are:

              1) the Aqua Memo does not include or reference any “back of the house” – style water uses
                 depicted in the Estate’s January 22, 2025 project visuals, which include “skier lounge,”
                 “apres bar/resi lounge/dining,” “kitchen,” “spa/treatment rooms,” “toilet/changing
                 rooms,” “fitness,” public restrooms, and hot tubs. I also raised the prospect of on-
                 property laundry and housekeeping;

              2) the Aqua Memo does not build in a contingency or buffer in per unit water use to ensure
                 the 8,000 gpd cap is not threatened;



SPENCER FANE SNOW CHRISTENSEN MARTINEAU | 10 EXCHANGE PLACE, 11TH FLOOR, SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84111 | 801.521.9000 | FAX 801.36 3.0400 | spencerfane.com
                                                                                       Page 86 of 86




July 3, 2025
Page 2
_____________________________




   3) the Aqua Memo is inaccurate in that it states that TOA will be the provider from its water
      system when, in fact, the Estate is to employ its own “stand-alone” water system; and

   4) the DDW Exception speaks in terms of water “consumption” when, in fact, the correct
      metric is water delivered for use in the project.

        Based on our conversation, the Estate regards the Aqua Memo as an effort at “feasibility”
for purposes of the rezone application. It is understood that later project stages, such as design
and permitting, will include sufficient planning detail regarding all specific water uses
throughout the project and the measures to be taken to ensure the 8,000 gpd cap is fully respected
and adhered to year-round. With this understanding and without waiving any rights under the
2014 Stipulation and Motion, and Stipulated Order, SLC now regards the three paragraph 4.a.
conditions currently satisfied, leaving its role in the Estate’s rezone application process as
peripheral at this time.

       SLC remains supportive of the conveyance of the 21+/- acres of the Patsey Marley Hill
property for open space/conservation purposes. SLC commends the Estate for this approach and
looks forward to its continued inclusion in the Estate’s planning.

                                             Sincerely,

                                             SPENCER FANE LLP



                                             Scott H. Martin

SHM:mlr
