September 24, 2025 APC Meeting                                                           Page 1 of 21
       MAYOR                                                                       TOWN OF ALTA
    ROGER BOURKE                                                                    P.O. BOX 8016
                                                                                  ALTA, UTAH 84092
    TOWN COUNCIL
    CAROLYN ANCTIL                                                                TEL (801) 363-5105
      JOHN BYRNE                                                                    (801) 742-3522
     DAN SCHILLING                                                                FAX (801)742-1006
     ELISE MORGAN                                                                       TTY 711




                        Alta Planning Commission Meeting Packet
                                   September 24, 2025
Document Tips: The sections below are each hyperlinked to help you navigate straight to a section
of interest. Page numbers refer to the header numbers on the top right of the page in blue.


Table of Contents
2                Agenda

3-6              Draft Meeting Minutes: August 27, 2025

7 – 21           Presentation: Wildland Urban Interface Code and HB48
          September 24, 2025 APC Meeting                                                                                               Page 2 of 21
                MAYOR                                                                                                        TOWN OF ALTA
             ROGER BOURKE                                                                                                     P.O. BOX 8016
                                                                                                                            ALTA, UTAH 84092
            TOWN COUNCIL
            CAROLYN ANCTIL                                                                                                  TEL (801) 363-5105
              JOHN BYRNE                                                                                                      (801) 742-3522
             ELISE MORGAN                                                                                                   FAX (801)742-1006
             DAN SCHILLING                                                                                                        TTY 711




                                                            AGENDA
                                               ALTA PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
                                             WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2025 @ 3:00 PM
                                                     ALTA COMMUNITY CENTER
                                                           ALTA, UTAH

 We encourage you to join us in person. This will be a hybrid meeting. For information about how to view the
              meeting online, please visit https://townofalta.utah.gov/events/ or watch live
                                  https://townofalta.utah.gov/live-stream/

            Public comment - please note, each person will be able to speak for up to 3 minutes.
  Written public input can be submitted in advance to Chris Cawley via email (ccawley@townofalta.utah.gov)
                   To make a public comment virtually we recommend notifying Molly Austin via email
                               (molly@townofalta.utah.gov) in advance of the meeting.

             1      Call the Meeting to Order
             2      Public Comment
             3      Approval of the minutes of the August 27, 2025 meeting
             4      Presentation and Discussion: Wildland Urban Interface Code and HB48
             5      New business
             6      Date of next meeting
             7      Motion to adjourn

Notice Provisions:
     •    Motions relating to any of the foregoing including final action may be taken at the meeting.
     •    One or more members of the Alta Planning Commission may attend by electronic means, including telephonically. Such members may fully participate in
          the proceedings as if physically present. The anchor location for purposes of the electronic meeting is the ALTA COMMUNITY CENTER, 10361 EAST HWY
          210, ALTA, UTAH
     •    Reasonable accommodation (including auxiliary communicative aids and services) for individuals with disabilities may be provided upon receipt of a
          request with three (3) working days’ notice. For assistance, please call the Alta Town Office at 801-363-5105
September 24, 2025 APC Meeting                                                        Page 3 of 21




                                    MEETING MINUTES
                          ALTA PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
                             Wednesday, August 27, 2025, 3:00 PM
                     Alta Community Center, 10351 E. Highway 210, Alta, Utah


ALTA PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING – 3:00 PM

PRESENT:                  Jon Nepstad, Chair (virtual)
                          Jeff Niermeyer, Vice-Chair (virtual)
                          Paul Moxley (virtual)
                          Maren Askins (virtual)
                          Roger Bourke, Town of Alta Mayor

STAFF PRESENT: Chris Cawley, Town Manager
               Molly Austin, Assistant Town Manager
               Polly McLean, Town Attorney (virtual)

ALSO PRESENT:             John Guldner, Cottonwood Lands Advisory (virtual)

NOT PRESENT:              David Abraham


    1. INTRODUCTION AND WELCOME FROM THE CHAIR

Planning Commission Chair Jon Nepstad opened the August 27, 2025 meeting at 3:01 PM.


    2. PUBLIC COMMENT

No comment received

    3. APPROVAL OF THE MINUTES FROM THE JULY 15, 2025 MEETING

Planning Commission Chair Jon Nepstad introduced the main agenda item for this meeting as
reviewing and approving the minutes from the July 15, 2025 Planning Commission Meeting. He
stated that the July 15th meeting had been an important meeting that included a wide-ranging
discussion and expressed gratitude that all commission members were in attendance. Nepstad
agreed with Chris Cawley that the magnitude of that meeting warranted holding today’s meeting
so the minutes could be approved and added to the record. Nepstad asked members of the Planning
Commission to share their comments on the minutes as drafted, starting with Jeff Niermeyer.

Niermeyer started by noting two small typos to be corrected:
   • Page 11 of the minutes, item #3: 2004 should be corrected to 2014.
   • Page 11 of the minutes, second to last paragraph: added clarification that the cap on water
      usage is 8,00 gallons per day.

Alta Planning Commission Meeting Minutes
August 27, 2025                                                                                 1
September 24, 2025 APC Meeting                                                             Page 4 of 21




Niermeyer then started more in-depth discussions about some of the final conditions listed on page
12 of the minutes.

Starting with item number #9, Niermeyer noted that the discussion regarding the building height
was not fully captured in the current version of the minutes. He recalled a discussion led by David
Abraham requesting that the height of the building was not to exceed the height of the Summer
Road. After some dialogue about the sloped nature of the Summer Road, it was ultimately
suggested by the applicant to consider the center line of the roof edge to be 8,850’ in elevation.

Planning Commission chair Jon Nepstad asked if the height of any additional HVAC or other
appurtenances that would be on top of the building was considered in determining the building
height. It was clarified by both Jeff Niermeyer and Chris Cawley that the height of any
appurtenances would be above the 8,850’ mark, as it was not explicitly clarified by the
Commission that those additions meet any height requirements.

Jeff Nierymeyer then moved on to address condition #11 and suggested some revised language to
better describe how the water system is intended to function.

Roger Bourke shared some context and background from the 2014 agreement about the location
and function of the proposed water tank – highlighting that it was intended to gravity-feed 10
homes and provide emergency water for fire protection purposes. It was acknowledged that details
about emergency water function were not articulated in the previous meeting.

Lastly, condition #4 was discussed to clarify whether the Commission’s intent was to support the
process of pursuing approval or to require the Estate to obtain approval for the alternate driveway.
It was clarified that approval of the driveway was the condition.

John Guldner discussed condition #10 – requesting clarification that the building will maintain 3
workforce housing units, one of which will be a live-in caretaker unit with a minimum of 650
square feet, noting that the current language implies only one workforce unit had to be included.

Roger Bourke noted that in hindsight, it would have been helpful to have the conditions displayed
for all to see during the meeting and hopes we can learn from that and do a better job in the future.

As a result of the discussions, the following red-line changes were made to the draft minutes:




Alta Planning Commission Meeting Minutes
August 27, 2025                                                                                      2
September 24, 2025 APC Meeting                                                           Page 5 of 21




Jeff Niermeyer motioned to approve the minutes from the July 15, 2025 Planning Commission
Meeting, as amended. Maren Askins seconded the motion. All members voted in favor and the
motion passed unanimously.


    4. NEW BUSINESS

No new business.

    5. DATE OF NEXT MEETING

The next meeting is scheduled for September 24, 2025 at 3:00 PM.

Chris Cawley described that HB48, adopted in the 2025 Utah legislative session, requires
municipalities to adopt the Wildland Urban Interface (WUI) code by December 31 2025. The
WUI code sets guidelines for defensible space, ignition resistant construction methods and
materials, and fire flow requirements, amongst other things. Cawley noted there is some debate
on whether or not this is officially considered a land use regulation, but as a best practice it is
recommended to have it come before the Planning Commission. Cawley highlighted that some
principles of the WUI code conflict with some of the regulations in Town Code regarding
vegetation management. Given the timeline for adoption, staff will prepare a presentation and
discussion on this topic for the September meeting.

Roger Bourke noted that this may require revisions to current Town Code regarding tree removal
restrictions. Cawley acknowledged this conflict and shared that all of our peer jurisdictions have
already adopted the WUI code, noting that the defensible space provisions are not “cookie-
cutter” and can be tailored to the specific needs of the jurisdiction.

Alta Planning Commission Meeting Minutes
August 27, 2025                                                                                    3
September 24, 2025 APC Meeting                                                           Page 6 of 21




Jeff Niermeyer stated another potential conflict with existing water contracts relative to fire
flows.

Next, a discussion ensued about the timeline and meeting schedule necessary to comply with the
statutory timeline to adopt the WUI code. Polly McLean recommended bringing it to the Town
Council in their November meeting and noted a planning commission public hearing will be
required to make any changes to Town Code.

Niermeyer asked whether staff would provide proposed edits to Town Code in the September
meeting, or if the September meeting would just include an informative presentation on the code
requirements, followed by amending the Town Code in October. Cawley observed that we don’t
have a choice but to adopt the WUI code and we will have to do our best to resolve any conflicts
with our current code. Cawley noted that the Town will have to adopt the WUI code by
reference. Polly elaborated that it will be adopted as an attachment to our code.

Jon Nepstad stated he hopes to have a Public Hearing in October so we can get it to the council
on time for the November council meeting and prefers that to having the Public Hearing in
September so the public has more information to respond to following the discussion in
September.

McLean noted that the Estate project is likely to go to the Town Council for a work session in
September.

Jon Nepstad expressed his interest in having the Commission participate in a “walk about” or
perhaps a “ski about” around Alta Ski Area (depending on time of year) to see some of the
updates and capital projects the Alta Ski Area has been working on in recent months, noting they
have had a very busy construction season. After further discussion, it was determined to target
this tour for December 17 to align with the scheduled December Commission meeting.

    6. MOTION TO ADJOURN

Planning Commission member Paul Moxley moved to adjourn the meeting. Planning Commission
member Jeff Niermeyer seconded the motion, and the motion was passed unanimously.



Minutes Approved on September 24, 2025


__________________________
Chris Cawley, Town Manager




Alta Planning Commission Meeting Minutes
August 27, 2025                                                                                    4
 September 24, 2025 APC Meeting   Page 7 of 21




Town to Adopt Wildland
Urban Interface Code
September 2025 Town Council
Meeting
September 24, 2025 APC Meeting   Page 8 of 21




Wildland Urban Interface
WILDLAND URBAN
INTERFACE. The line, area or
zone where structures or
other human development
(including critical
infrastructure that if
destroyed would result in
hardship to communities)
meet or intermingle with
undeveloped wildland or
vegetative fuel. 2006 Utah
Wildland Urban Interface
Code, Section 202
  September 24, 2025 APC Meeting                                                                                              Page 9 of 21




2025 Utah HB 0048
Highlighted Provisions:
This bill:
▸defines terms;
▸requires counties to take certain actions related to wildland urban interface property, including assessing a fee;
▸directs the fee to be retained by a county and deposited into the Wildland-urban Interface Prevention, Preparedness, and
Mitigation Fund;
▸addresses insuring wildland urban interface property;
▸imposes notice requirements related to insuring wildland urban interface property;
▸requires counties and municipalities to adopt the wildland urban interface building code standards;
▸permits the Division of Forestry, Fire, and State Lands (division) to choose not to cover costs of local governments under
certain circumstances;
▸directs the division to establish a program for wildland urban interface coordinators to evaluate, using a triage scale, high risk
wildland urban interface property;
▸addresses actions related to evaluating the high-risk wildland urban interface property;
▸provides for a database to be accessed by certain insurers related to evaluating high risk wildland urban interface property;
▸authorizes rulemaking;
▸addresses liability; and
▸makes technical changes.

https://le.utah.gov/~2025/bills/static/HB0048.html
    September 24, 2025 APC Meeting                                                                                                                  Page 10 of 21




  2006 Utah Wildland Urban Interface
  Code
Section                                 What it Covers                                     Key Requirements / Highlights
Purpose & Scope                         Applies to construction, alteration, relocation,   Mitigates risk to life & property from wildfires and fire exposures
                                        repair, maintenance & use of structures in         from adjacent structures.
                                        designated WUI areas in Utah.
Defensible Space / Vegetation           Fuel modification & defensible space around        Required clearance (horizontal/vertical) of vegetation; removal or
Management                              structures.                                        thinning; distances depend on slope etc.
Ignition‐Resistant Construction         Requirements for roofs, walls, windows etc. to     Roofs must have Class A roofing; exterior construction materials
                                        resist fire ignition.                              rated; details in plan must show compliance.
Access & Water Supply                   Fire apparatus access roads, driveways; water      All‐weather roads, approved access widths; required water supply
                                        supply provisions.                                 for fire protection; local jurisdictions set fire flow / water amounts.
Administration & Compliance             Code adoption; authority; permits; inspections;    Local amendments allowed if not less restrictive; code official
                                        exceptions.                                        enforces; permits and inspections required; some exemptions for
                                                                                           small structures.



                                     https://ffsl.utah.gov/wp-content/uploads/06_Utah_Wildland_5thdnd.pdf
 September 24, 2025 APC Meeting       Page 11 of 21




WUI Code Defensible Space Provisions
• Moderate vs. High vs.
 Extreme hazard areas require
 30, 50, or 100 feet of
 defensible space
• Trees are allowed with 10’
 clearance between crowns
 and electrical facilities or other
 unmodified fuels
• Fuel modification plans are
 approved by the code official
 prior to permit
 September 24, 2025 APC Meeting                                                                                                     Page 12 of 21




Known conflicts: TOA vs. WUI
Chapter 9-2 Preservation of Vegetation During Development
9-3-2: SITE PLAN APPROVAL:
 A. Required; Approving Authority: It is the express policy of the town to preserve as many mature trees as possible. It shall be unlawful for
any person to proceed with any development or remove mature trees within the town without first having submitted a site plan and
obtaining an approved site plan with respect to vegetation. For single-family residential development, the mayor shall provide said approval.
For all other development, the planning commission shall provide said approval. In order to obtain approval to remove mature trees, a
person must show that the failure to remove a mature tree will constitute extreme hardship.
9-3-3: REQUIREMENTS FOR PRESERVATION OR REPLACEMENT:
 A. Seedlings: Any seedling removed from the property shall be replaced with three (3) vigorous seedlings of at least six inches (6") in
height.
  B. Saplings: Any sapling removed from the property shall be replaced with three (3) vigorous seedlings at least six inches (6") in height and
three (3) vigorous saplings at least five feet (5') in height.
  C. Mature Trees:
   1. Any mature tree, if approved for removal from the property, shall be replaced with five (5) vigorous seedlings at least six inches (6") in
height and five (5) vigorous saplings at least five feet (5') in height.
    2. No mature tree shall be removed without site plan approval.
 D. Survival; Replacement: Appropriate steps shall be taken to ensure all planted trees survive. Any planted trees that do not survive shall
be replaced.
September 24, 2025 APC Meeting                                                              Page 13 of 21




What’s the rub? What’s the Solution?

                                               • Bare minimum: create exception for
                                                 defensible space
          Section 9-2 doesn’t necessarily      • Recommended: remove requirement to
         preclude defensible space, but it’s     replace trees, reassign site plan approval to
         much harder to maintain if one is       staff or code official
          required to add trees on the lot     • Idea: create more comprehensive tree
                                                 removal ordinance or vegetation protection
                                                 ordinance
     September 24, 2025 APC Meeting                                                                                                                          Page 14 of 21




Alternative? Brighton 19.38.110
Town of Brighton Code 19.38.110 TREE AND VEGETATION PROTECTION
C. Tree/Vegetation Removal
1.       Outside the Limits of Disturbance. The removal of trees is allowed under the following circumstances:
      a)    Where trees have naturally fallen or are determined by a licensed arborist to be dead or dying.
      b)    Where trees have been diagnosed by a qualified arborist as unhealthy beyond reasonable rehabilitation.
      c)    Where the species is classified by the Utah Department of Agriculture and Food as a noxious weed.
      d)    Where trees are determined to be potentially harmful to the public health, safety, or welfare.
      e)    Where it has been determined by the Town of Brighton that tree removal is necessary to restore clear visibility at driveways and intersections.
      f)    Where the preservation of trees would prevent reasonable site grading to accommodate a functional arrangement of buildings and related
            improvements on the property. Written documentation of the above is required prior to the removal of any tree.
      g)    Any removal of trees within fifty-feet (50’) of a stream corridor or wetlands must be approved by the Salt Lake City Department of Public Utilities
            prior to their removal.
2.         Wildfire Hazards and Tree/Vegetation Removal. Defensible space is defined as the required space between a structure and wildland area that, under
           normal conditions, creates a sufficient buffer to slow or halt the spread of wildfire to a structure. Appropriate defensible space surrounding a structure is
           established in Utah Wildland-Urban Interface Code incorporated in UFA Wildland-Urban Interface Site Plan/Development Review Guide. See subsection
           G below. A copy of the approved fire protection plan shall be submitted to the Planning and Development Services for incorporation into the final
           approval documents.
3.         Tree/Vegetation Removal for Views Prohibited. No trees or vegetation may be removed solely for the purpose of providing open views to or from
           structures on a site.
https://brighton.municipalcodeonline.com/book?type=ordinances#name=19.38.110_TREE_AND_VEGETATION_PROTECTION
September 24, 2025 APC Meeting                                             Page 15 of 21




                                 UCA 65A-8-203 Cooperative fire protection
                                 agreements with eligible entities allows
  What If We                     municipalities, other entities to enter into
                                 cooperative agreements with FFSL to cover
  Don't Adopt                    costs for initial attack on wildland fires in
                                 exchange for mitigation and preparedness
  the WUI                        actions
                                  • Allows the state not to cover those costs
  Code                               if the Town has not adopted 2006 WUI
                                     Code and any subsequent editions of
                                     WUI Code adopted by State of Utah
    September 24, 2025 APC Meeting    Page 16 of 21



 We need to
 adopt a
 local WUI
 designation
• Similarly situated communities
  nearby (Brighton and
  Emigration Canyon) have
  declared their entire
  jurisdiction as WUI area

• We could extract areas, but it
  would need to be supported by
  various data, and it may
  introduce confusion or difficulty
  interpreting the designation
September 24, 2025 APC Meeting   Page 17 of 21




Other
Provisions
in HB 48
       September 24, 2025 APC Meeting                            Page 18 of 21



                                                     UWRAP: Utah Risk
                                                     Assessment Portal*




https://wrap.wildfirerisk.utah.gov/Map/Public/#wha
ts-your-risk

*New assessment tool coming by year-end, will be
the official risk assessment map
 September 24, 2025 APC Meeting                                                     Page 19 of 21




Property Assessments, Fees, Insurance
provisions in HB 48
• Utah Division of Forestry, Fire, and State Lands
 (FFSL) and/or counties will assess properties       • Requires insurers to use the FFSL
 within the state-designated High Risk WUI            risk-mapping tool (UWRAP, to be
• Property owners within the High Risk WUI will       updated/replaced)
 be assessed a fee based on structure square
 footage, to be collected by counties                • Creates requirements for insurers
• Fees will vary based on classification level and    that raise rates or cancel policies
 compliance with defensible space                    • Context: property insurance
 requirements, “home hardening,” etc;
 properties that meet requirements may be             market in wildfire-prone
 assessed lower fees                                  communities increasingly
•Counties and FFSL will use fees to fund              expensive and difficult to obtain
 assessments, etc.
 September 24, 2025 APC Meeting                                                      Page 20 of 21




Other
• UFA is Alta’s fire department and likely initial attack agency for wildland fire
 in Alta
• ~80 percent of land in Alta is owned and managed by the US Forest Service
   • Any significant wildland fire in or near Alta is likely to provoke a
       significant, multi-agency response led by federal agencies due to
       watershed, high property values and commercial activity, potential
       for significant risk to health and safety of residents and visitors
• Some have assumed that Alta is less at risk to catastrophic fire due to
   high elevation/cold temps, high annual precipitation and late spring
   melt-out, forest characteristics. Is this still true?
• Small fires routinely occur in central Wasatch near Alta: lightning strikes,
   campfires, etc. Will one of these grow out of control? Other “swiss
   cheese theory” risk factors
• Recent major fires on Wasatch Front: Parley’s 137, August 2021, ~3000
   acres; Pole Creek Complex near Payson, August 2018, ~120,000 acres
 September 24, 2025 APC Meeting                                                      Page 21 of 21




Summary and Next Steps
• Adopt WUI Code
• Designate local WUI boundary
• Amend Section 9-3 Preservation of Vegetation During Development to reduce conflicts with
  WUI Code
• Public hearing and commission vote in October?
• More resources:
   • FFSL webpage on HB 48
   • Utah Wildfire Risk Assessment Portal (UWRAP)
   • UFA Wildland Division webpage
   • Utah DNR Wildfire Perimeters Map 1999-2020
• State will finalize rulemaking in October for other provisions in HB 48 re: high-risk WUI
  designations, property assessments, etc.
