The Shallow Shaft Property Redevelopment
                      Meeting Purpose


•     Provide historical overview
•     Present proposal for rezone and/or text amendment
    conditions for Zone C of the Base Facilities Zone.
•     Made in response to March 2025 Planning Commission (PC)
    feedback and subsequent discussions with individual Town
                                                 Ag
    Council and Town Staff members.
Historical Overview
                      Ag
                  Our Community Presence

Our Longstanding Presence in Alta

• The Shallow Shaft – A Part of Alta Since
  1956
   • Originally built as a ski shop, now
      restaurant and apartment.

• 39 Years of Family Investment in Alta
   • Purchased by Walter Krebsbach in
      1986.
   • Ongoing support for local
      organizations and lodges (Alta
      Historical Society, Alta Art Council,
      Friends of Alta, Alta Community
      Enrichment, Photohaus, Snowpine,
      Alta and Rustler Lodges).
    Planning Commission Meetings (1)
First Meeting - April 2024


Goal: Share our vision for Shallow Shaft property

Overview:
•    Demolish and rebuild in a new orientation
•    Ensure full code compliance
•    Focus on health, safety and sustainability
•                                                        Aghotel
     Repurpose restaurant and apartment into permitted use:
•    Visuals: Site maps, display exterior views, and designs
     Three level structure –
•    1st level covered parking, 8 spaces
•    2nd and 3rd levels – 4 units, 8 hotel rooms total
       Planning Commission Meetings (2)
Second Meeting - March 2025
Goal
•     Present updated proposal in response to April 2024 PC
            meeting feedback and November 2024 Town meeting
•     Obtain additional feedback before a formal submission.

Key Updates Based on PC and Town Feedback:
•     Employee housing added – affordable workforce housing.
•     Coffee shop added to enhance community amenities.           Ag
•     Room count reduced from 8 to 5 for a more compact design.
•     Parking entrance adjusted to meet UDOT requirements; interior parking
   reduced from 8 to 5 spaces.
•    Avalanche safety – Designed to resist avalanches – can
  be used during inter-lodge
•     Snow melt water management solution added to ensure environmental
    sustainability.
              Main discussion points


• Culvert management – determined a solvable issue
• Hotel rooms with adjacent kitchens – Point of disagreement
between Shallow Shaft owners and Town of Alta



                                              Ag
        Activities and Discussions post
                   March 2025

Activities/Discussions
• Met with Alta Ski Lifts General Manager - Mike Maughan
• Placed GRAMA request for plans and building permits for the
Snowpine, Rustler and Goldminers Daughters lodges to
understand past approval process for hotel units with kitchens and
the Town office to understand approval process with
                                                 Ag proximity to
culvert
• Met with Alta Town Council Members – Dan Schilling, John
Byrne and Mayor Roger Bourke
• Discussions with Alta Town Manager – Chris Cawley
• Proposed iteration and discussion

Outcome
• Submission of Request for Rezone and/or Text Amendment
Review of Proposal
                     Ag
        Base Facilities Zone Properties

Zone A: Snowpine Lodge, Rustler Lodge and Alta Lodge

Zone B: Goldminer's Daughter Lodge and Alta Peruvian Lodge

Zone C: Shallow Shaft Restaurant and Photohaus


                                             Ag
    Proposed Rezone and Conditions
          Zone C Properties


• Lot width and area
• New Permitted Use: Boutique Hotel
• New Definition: Boutique Ag
                           Hotel
Base Facilities Zone
Current Code Requirement – Lot Area, Lot
Width and Slope

10-6D-8: LOT AREA, LOT WIDTH AND SLOPE REQUIREMENTS:
Construction of any building, structure or improvements shall not be
permitted where any of the following conditions exist:
 A. The lot area is less than one net developable acre in size; or
 B. The slope exceeds thirty percent (30%); or
  C. The width of the lot shall be less than one hundred feet (100').
(Ord. 2008-O-7, 6-12-2008)
Proposed Zone C amendment
Alta Code 10-6D-8 Lot Area, Lot Width and Slope requirements is
amended from the current ordinance to read in its entirety:

A. Construction of any building, structure or improvements in Zones A
and B shall not be permitted where any of the following conditions exist:.
  A. 1. The lot area is less than one net developable acre in size; or
  B. 2. The slope exceeds thirty percent (30%); or
  C. 3. The width of the lot shall be less than one hundred feet (100’).
B. Any lot or parcel in Zone C that existed as a separate legal lot or
parcel prior to January 1, 2025, and has not been subdivided or
otherwise modified since that date, shall be deemed to meet the minimum
lot area and width requirements of this Code, despite net developable
area being less than one acre, for purposes of any development
application. Such lots shall be developed in accordance with all other
applicable zoning regulations, including lot coverage and height,
regardless of whether the lot meets current dimensional standards for lot
size, width, or frontage.
Proposal Permitted Use
                     Proposal Permitted Use
                    Base Facilities Zone Only
 Alta Code 10-6D-4 PERMITTED, PROHIBITED USES is amended from the
 current ordinance to repeal and replace Subsection B and add a new Subsection C.:
  A. Permitted uses:
             1. Hotels.
             2. Conferences.
             3. Retail commercial services, limited to the following and similar uses: retail
shops, art galleries, bakeries, bars, bookstores, liquor stores, clothing stores, drugstores,
food markets, gift shops, restaurants, sporting goods stores, ski shops and variety stores.
             4. Storage of materials accessory to permitted uses in subsections A1 and A2
of this section, provided all such storage is located within a structure.
             5. Parking of motor vehicles accessory to other uses permitted herein.
             6. Parks, open spaces and recreational uses.
             7. Designated employee housing units, as described in section 10-6D-7 of this
article.
   B. The following are additional permitted uses only in the base facilities zone C (and
not Zones A and B): Boutique Hotel; living quarters for persons employed on the premises
of any Main Use.
C. All uses not identified in Subsection A, above, are prohibited in base facilities zones A
and B. All uses not identified in Subsection A or B, above, are prohibited in the base
facilities zone, including Zone C.
Proposal New Definition
                   Proposed New Definition
                   Base Facilities Zone Only
Alta Code 10-1-6 Definitions is amended to add the following definition of
“Boutique Hotel”


New Definition Added (no other changes):
Boutique Hotel: A small, independently operated lodging facility located only
within the Zone C of the Base Facilities Zone, containing no more than eight (8)
guest-rooms, including any on-site worker housing units as may be required by Alta
Code. A Boutique Hotel shall be separately owned and independent from any larger
resort, hotel, or lodging facility. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Alta
Code, guest-rooms in a Boutique Hotel may include in-room or shared kitchens and
kitchenettes for guest use.
Discussion and Q & A
