The Shallow Shaft Property Redevelopment
                    Meeting Purpose
Review progress from 11.19.25 Planning Commission meeting
1) Meeting between Shallow Shaft legal counsel and Town of
Alta to develop wording for:
•   Alternate use definition
•   Alternate use
•   Alternate Lot Area, Width and Slope
                                           Ag
2) Development of Shallow Shaft hotel massing
Use Definition
                 Ag
             Nov 19 Proposed New Definition
                Base Facilities Zone Only
Alta Code 10-1-6 Definitions is amended to add the following definition of
“Boutique Hotel”


New Definition Added (no other changes):
Boutique Hotel: A small, independently operated lodging facility located only
within the Zone C of the Base Facilities Zone, containing no more than eight (8)
guest-rooms, including any on-site worker housing units as may be required by Alta
Code. A Boutique Hotel shall be separately owned and independent from any larger
resort, hotel, or lodging facility. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Alta
Code, guest-rooms in a Boutique Hotel may include in-room or shared kitchens and
kitchenettes for guest use.
                       Alternate Use Definition
ALTERNATE (this is Shallow Shaft’s updated alternative for
consideration that changes the name and removes the references to
independent operation, based on feedback from the Planning Commission
meeting):


•     Compact Hotel Facility: A small lodging facility located only within the Zone
    C of the Base Facilities Zone, containing no more than eight (8) guest-rooms,
                                                                Ag
    including any on-site worker housing units as may be required by Alta Code.
    Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Alta Code, guest-rooms in a
    Compact Hotel Facility may include in-room or shared kitchens and kitchenettes
    for guest use.
Use
      Ag
               Nov 19 Proposal Permitted Use
                 Base Facilities Zone Only
 Alta Code 10-6D-4 PERMITTED, PROHIBITED USES is amended from the
 current ordinance to repeal and replace Subsection B and add a new Subsection C.:
  A. Permitted uses:
             1. Hotels.
             2. Conferences.
             3. Retail commercial services, limited to the following and similar uses: retail
shops, art galleries, bakeries, bars, bookstores, liquor stores, clothing stores, drugstores,
food markets, gift shops, restaurants, sporting goods stores, ski shops and variety stores.
             4. Storage of materials accessory to permitted uses in subsections A1 and A2
of this section, provided all such storage is located within a structure.
             5. Parking of motor vehicles accessory to other uses permitted herein.
             6. Parks, open spaces and recreational uses.
             7. Designated employee housing units, as described in section 10-6D-7 of this
article.
   B. The following are additional permitted uses only in the base facilities zone C (and
not Zones A and B): Boutique Hotel; living quarters for persons employed on the premises
of any Main Use.
C. All uses not identified in Subsection A, above, are prohibited in base facilities zones A
and B. All uses not identified in Subsection A or B, above, are prohibited in the base
facilities zone, including Zone C.
                     Alternate Use (1)

ALTERNATE: This proposed alternative:

(i)     provides a simplified, but substantively similar, method

        to allow only the additional use,

(ii)    removes the unnecessary use of “living quarters for
        persons employed...” as that use is covered by the
                                                   Ag
        definition and calls back to the other requirements of

        the Alta Code, and

(iii)   provides an optional subsection to allow a small retail

        space, but that such a distinct space would not require
        additional parking.
                              Alternate Use (2)
10-6D-4: PERMITTED, PROHIBITED USES:
A. Permitted uses for all base facilities zones:
              1. Hotels.
              2. Conferences.
              3. Retail commercial services, limited to the following and similar uses:
retail shops, art galleries, bakeries, bars, bookstores, liquor stores, clothing stores,
drugstores, food markets, gift shops, restaurants, sporting goods stores, ski shops and
variety stores.
              4. Storage of materials accessory to permitted uses in subsections A1 and A2
of this section, provided all such storage is located within a structure.
              5. Parking of motor vehicles accessory to other uses permitted herein.
              6. Parks, open spaces and recreational uses.
              7. Designated employee housing units, as described in section 10-6D-7 of
this article.                                                          Ag
B. Prohibited: All other uses are not permitted in the base facilities zone.
C. Notwithstanding the foregoing in Subsection B, the use Compact Hotel Facility is an
additional permitted use in Zone C only.
[OPTIONAL CAN BE OMITTED OR INCLUDED WITH Subsection C.] 1. A Compact
Hotel Facility may include as an accessory use a retail commercial service identified in
or consistent with subsection A.3, above. No additional parking may be required for the
accessory retail commercial service use contained within the same structure as the
Compact Hotel Facility, provided the accessory use occupies no more than four hundred
Lot Area, Width and Slope
                      Ag
Base Facilities Zone
Current Code Requirement – Lot Area, Lot Width and
Slope


10-6D-8: LOT AREA, LOT WIDTH AND SLOPE REQUIREMENTS:
Construction of any building, structure or improvements shall not be permitted where
any of the following conditions exist:
 A. The lot area is less than one net developable acre in size; or
 B. The slope exceeds thirty percent (30%); or
 C. The width of the lot shall be less than one hundred feet (100'). (Ord. 2008-O-7, 6-
12-2008)
Nov 19 Proposed Zone C amendment
Alta Code 10-6D-8 Lot Area, Lot Width and Slope requirements is amended from the
current ordinance to read in its entirety:

A. Construction of any building, structure or improvements in Zones A and B shall not be
permitted where any of the following conditions exist:.
  A. 1. The lot area is less than one net developable acre in size; or
  B. 2. The slope exceeds thirty percent (30%); or
  C. 3. The width of the lot shall be less than one hundred feet (100’).
B. Any lot or parcel in Zone C that existed as a separate legal lot or parcel prior to
January 1, 2025, and has not been subdivided or otherwise modified since that date, shall
be deemed to meet the minimum lot area and width requirements of this Code, despite net
developable area being less than one acre, for purposes of any development application.
Such lots shall be developed in accordance with all other applicable zoning regulations,
including lot coverage and height, regardless of whether the lot meets current dimensional
standards for lot size, width, or frontage.
Alternate Zone C amendment
ALTERNATE: This version (i) clarifies further that the slope requirement is not
modified by the change and (ii) removes the superfluous reference to frontage.

10-6D-8: LOT AREA, LOT WIDTH AND SLOPE REQUIREMENTS:
A. Construction of any building, structure or improvements shall not be
permitted where any of the following conditions exist:.
A. 1. The lot area is less than one net developable acre in size; or
B. 2. The slope exceeds thirty percent (30%); or
C. 3. The width of the lot shall be less than one hundred feet
(100’).
B. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any lot or parcel in Zone C that existed as
a separate legal lot or parcel prior to January 1, 2025, and has not been
subdivided or otherwise modified since that date, shall be deemed to meet the
minimum lot area and width requirements of this Code, despite net developable
area being less than one acre, for purposes of any development application.
Such lots shall be developed in accordance with all other applicable zoning
regulations, including lot coverage and height, regardless of whether the lot
meets current dimensional standards for lot size or width. This provision may
not be deemed to modify the slope requirement in Subsection A above in any
way.
Discussion and Q & A
Hotel Massing
Discussion and Q & A
