   MAYOR                                                                                 TOWN OF ALTA
HARRIS SONDAK                                                                             P.O. BOX 8016
                                                                                           ALTA, UTAH
TOWN COUNCIL                                                                               84092-8016
MARGARET BOURKE
   CLIFF CURRY
 SHERIDAN DAVIS                                                                   TEL (801)363-5105 / 742-3522
  ELISE MORGAN                                                                         FAX (801)742-1006
                                                                                            TTY 711




                                                                                December 30, 2019

Dear Members of the Town Council,

As mayor, it is my responsibility to appoint members to Alta’s Planning Commission with the advice
of the Planning Commission and the advice and consent of the Town Council. Planning
Commissioner Roger Bourke’s second five-year term expires on December 31, 2019, and as you
know, I decided not to appoint Roger to a third term on the Planning Commission because his wife,
Margaret, serves on Alta’s Town Council. In my view, it is inappropriate for a Commissioner to be
married to a member of the Town Council. The Town’s attorney agrees that such a relationship
exposes the Town to risk. I thank Roger for his service of ten years on the Planning Commission and
look forward to his continuing engagement with the important issues that are before our
community.

I have communicated directly with the members of the Planning Commission and members of the
Town Council offered their suggestions on this matter before, during, and after the meeting of the
Town Council on December 11, 2019. I understand that some members of the Town Council do not
share my view of the situation and if in my position might make a different decision. In fulfilling my
duties as mayor, however, I have to do what I believe is ethically right and in the best interest of the
town even when faced with disagreement.

I hereby appoint Dr. Danya Lee Rumore to a five-year term as the “at-large” member of Alta’s
Planning Commission, to begin in January, 2020. Dr. Rumore is eminently qualified for this position
as the attached curriculum vitae makes clear. Dr. Rumore is a nationally recognized expert in
incorporating science and community values in developing consensus for decisions about land,
water, and resource use, and in dispute resolution. She has particular experience in working with
communities that are recreation area gateways, such as Alta, including for example Springdale,
Utah, and Driggs, Idaho. Dr. Rumore’s research and extensive consulting experience encompass
issues that are facing Alta – in particular, Alta’s need for resilience, managing growth, and
collaboration in the context of overlapping jurisdictions. Dr. Rumore lives in Salt Lake County and
knows Alta well. She spends much time throughout the year in our town and in Little Cottonwood
Canyon and knows that Alta is, as our vision statement puts it, a sanctuary to treasure.

We are exceedingly fortunate that Dr. Rumore is willing to serve on our Planning Commission. I
have no doubt that Dr. Rumore will complement the other Commissioners and enhance the
working of the Commission. With growth in Salt Lake County, changes in ski area marketing,
aspirations for a new community center, among other issues before Alta, Dr. Rumore is the right
person to appoint to the Planning Commission at this time. She will help us implement Alta’s vision
for fostering responsible and sustainable growth and development, protecting our natural
resources, and welcoming our visitors.

Discussion of and action on this appointment will be on the agenda for our Town Council meeting
on January 8, 2020. Dr. Rumore will attend the January meeting to answer any questions you may
have. It is my request that you consent to this appointment at that meeting of the Town Council so
that Dr. Rumore can attend the Planning Commission’s next meeting as a member of the
Commission.

Sincerely,




Harris Sondak
Mayor, Town of Alta
