                                    Danya Lee Rumore
                          Director, Environmental Dispute Resolution Program
            Research Assistant Professor, Wallace Stegner Center, S.J. Quinney College of Law
              Research Assistant Professor, Department of City and Metropolitan Planning
                                           University of Utah
                             208-659-1415 | danya.rumore@law.utah.edu


EDUCATION
2011-2015       Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT)                   Cambridge, Massachusetts
                PhD, Environmental Policy and Planning
                • Specialization: Science, Society, and Environmental Decision-Making
                • Dissertation: Role-play simulations: a tool for transformative civic education and
                   engagement around science-intensive environmental issues. Committee: Lawrence
                   Susskind (MIT; Chair); Noelle Selin (MIT); and Paul Kirshen (UNH)
2008-2010       University of Auckland                                             Auckland, New Zealand
                Master of Science, Environmental Management and Geography
                • First Class Honors
                • Thesis: Repoliticizing urban sustainability and the politics of the possible
2003-2007       Oregon State University                                              Corvallis, Oregon
                Bachelor of Science, Environmental Science and Natural Resource Economics
                • Summa Cum Laude


PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE
2015—present University of Utah                                                    Salt Lake City, Utah
             Director (July 2017-present) and Associate Director (July 2015-June 2017), Environmental
             Dispute Resolution Program
             Research Associate Professor (July 2018-present) and Research Assistant Professor (July
             2015-July 2018), S.J. Quinney College of Law
             Research Assistant Professor, Department of City and Metropolitan Planning
2009—present Self-Employed                                                   Cambridge, Massachusetts
             Freelance Science Writer and Editor                                   Salt Lake City, Utah
2011—2015       MIT Science Impact Collaborative                             Cambridge, Massachusetts
                Assistant Director and Project Manager
2012—2015       Consensus Building Institute                                 Cambridge, Massachusetts
                Associate
2012—2015       Idaho Conservation League                                              Sandpoint, Idaho
                Consultant
2011            Small Planet Institute                                       Cambridge, Massachusetts
                Interim Institute Manager
SELECT RESEARCH
2018—present Best Practices in Environmental Conflict Resolution                         United States
             Co-Principal Investigator
             • Empirically documenting and examining the state of the practice and the
                 effectiveness of best practices for environmental conflict resolution and
                 collaborative governance
2018—present Collaborative Forest Planning and Management                                Western U.S.
             Principal Investigator
             • Leading an ongoing research effort exploring opportunities for improved
                 collaboration around planning and management of western national forests
             • IN partnership with the Ruckelshaus Institute at the University of Wyoming,
                 conducting a Situation Assessment of management and planning on the Bridger-
                 Teton National Forest to identify opportunities for improved collaboration
2016—present Planning in Gateway and Natural Amenity Region Communities                Western U.S.
             Principal Investigator
             • Leading an ongoing research project that is investigating the key planning challenges
                 and opportunities in gateway and natural amenity regions in the western United
                 States
             • Project funded by a grant from the National Institute for Transportation and
                 Communities ($93K)
2015—present Regional Collaboration, Resilience Communities                             Utah and Idaho
             Principal Investigator and Facilitator
             • Leading an ongoing community-based research, education, and capacity building
                 project that is supporting regional collaborative planning in rural mountain west
                 regions facing significant growth pressures. Currently working in the Zion National
                 Park region, UT, and Bonner County, ID
             • Project funded by grants and gifts from the National Institute for Transportation and
                 Communities ($40K); the LOR Foundation ($22K); the St. George Area Convention
                 and Tourism Office ($20K); the National Association of Realtors ($16.5K); the
                 University of Utah Scholarship and Innovation Program ($10K); Washington County,
                 Utah ($7K); the Utah Office of Tourism ($3.5K); and the Town of Springdale ($3.5K)
2015—2018      Impact Assessment of NCR RSF under the National Disaster Recovery Framework
               Co-Investigator
               • Co-led an impact assessment of select disaster recovery efforts to inform future NCR
                   RSF work
               • Project funded by a $30K grant from the U.S. Department of the Interior
2012—2015      New England Climate Adaptation Project                        Cambridge, Massachusetts
               Project Manager and Lead Researcher
               • Managed the New England Climate Adaptation Project, a collaborative research
                   effort that developed stakeholder engagement and education tools for local-level
                   climate change adaptation; facilitated collaboration among 25 project scientists,
                   consultants, and local government partners across four sites; oversaw an annual
                   budget of approximately $300K
               • Project funded by a $600K grant from the National Estuarine Research Reserve
                   System Science Collaborative


                                                                                                    2
2009          New Zealand Centre for Sustainable Cities                           New Zealand
              Research Fellow
              • Conducted research on effective governance and stakeholder engagement
                 approaches for local sustainability initiatives
2008—2009     United States Fulbright Student Program                             New Zealand
              Fulbright Fellow to New Zealand
              • Conducted research on collaborative environmental management and community-
                  based sustainability initiatives

SELECT TEACHING
Spring 2019   University of Utah                                                    Salt Lake City, Utah
              Instructor: Negotiation and Dispute Resolution in the Public Sector
              Guest lecturer: Class on “Collaboration around wicked problems: the case of the Great
              Salt Lake” for the Global Change and Sustainability Seminar; Class on “Alternative
              Dispute Resolution” for the Environmental Law course
Fall 2018     University of Utah                                               Salt Lake City, Utah
              Instructor: Gateway and Natural Amenity Community Planning Workshop
              Guest lecturer: Class on “Collaboration and Community Engagement” for the Design
              Contexts course
Spring 2018   University of Utah                                                    Salt Lake City, Utah
              Instructor: Negotiation and Dispute Resolution in the Public Sector
              Guest lecturer: Class on “Having difficult conversations…productively” for the
              Environmental Capstone class
Fall 2017     University of Utah                                              Salt Lake City, Utah
              Instructor: Gateway and Natural Amenity Community Planning Workshop
Spring 2017   University of Utah                                                    Salt Lake City, Utah
              Instructor: Negotiation and Dispute Resolution in the Public Sector
Fall 2017     University of Utah                                                    Salt Lake City, Utah
              Instructor: Gateway and Natural Amenity Community Planning Workshop
              Co-Instructor: Reason, Power, and Values
              Guest lecturer: Class on “Making Conflict Productive” for the graduate Planning
              Communication course; Class on “Enhancing community readiness to adapt through
              role-play simulations” for the Wasatch Experience teaching assistant training course;
              Class on “Enhancing community readiness to adapt: strategies for education,
              engagement, and collective risk management” for the Climate Adaptation Planning
              course
Spring 2016   University of Utah                                                   Salt Lake City, Utah
              Instructor: Negotiation and Dispute Resolution in the Public Sector
              Guest Lecturer: Class on “Climate Change Adaptation” for the graduate Planning for
              Disasters and Environmental Change course; Class on “Facilitation” for the Conflict
              Resolution Graduate Certificate course; Class on “Collaborative Climate Change
              Adaptation Planning” for the graduate Environmental Conflict Resolution course
Fall 2015     University of Utah                                                    Salt Lake City, Utah



                                                                                                       3
                Guest Lecturer: Class on “Planning with Complexity and Consensus Building” for the
                graduate Reason, Power, and Values course; Class on “Making Conflict Productive” for
                the graduate Planning Communication course; Role-play simulation training for the
                Global Change and Sustainability Center seminar; Lecture on “Helping Communities
                Adapt to Climate Change Through Collaborative Action Research” for the Global Change
                and Sustainability Center seminar
Spring 2015     Ohio Sate University                                                    Columbus, Ohio
                Guest Lecturer: Graduate class on designing and using science-based role-play
                simulations for planning and public engagement
2012—2014       Harvard University                                         Cambridge, Massachusetts
                Guest Lecturer: Graduate and undergraduate classes on the Mutual Gains Approach
                to trans-boundary water management
Fall 2014       Harvard School of Public Health                                     Boston, Massachusetts
                Teaching Assistant: Negotiation for Public Health Professionals
Spring 2014     Massachusetts Institute of Technology                        Cambridge, Massachusetts
                Teaching Assistant: Negotiation and Dispute Resolution in the Public Sector
Spring 2013     Massachusetts Institute of Technology                           Cambridge, Massachusetts
                Teaching Assistant: The Art and Science of Negotiation


SELECT PUBLICATIONS
Zajchowski, C., M. Brownlee, M. Blacketer, J. Rose, D. Rumore, J. Watson, and D. Dustin
(forthcoming, 2019) “Can You Take Me Higher?”: Normative Thresholds for Air Quality in the
Salt Lake City Metropolitan Area, Journal of Leisure Research.
Rumore, D., Schenk, T., & Susskind, L. (2016). Role-play simulations for climate change adaptation
education and engagement. Nature Climate Change, 6(8), 745-750.
Czaika, E., Rumore D., & Schenk. T. (2016). Finding the facts about joint fact-finding: Criteria and
approaches for rigorous evaluation. In M. M. Editor & T. S. Editor (Eds.), Joint Fact Finding in Urban
Planning and Environmental Disputes (pp.181-203), London, UK: Routledge.
Schenk, T., Czaika, E., Russo, M., & Rumore, D. (2016). Joint fact finding: An approach for advancing
interactive governance when scientific and technical information is in question. In J. E. Editor & I. V.M.
Editor (Eds.), Critical Reflections on Interactive Governance (pp. 376—400), Northampton, MA: Edward
Elgar Publishing.
Cachelin, A., Rose, J., & Rumore, D. (2016). Leveraging place and community for critical sustainability
education: The promise of participatory action research, Journal of Sustainability Education, 11.
Susskind, L., Rumore, D., Hulet, C., & Field, P. (2015). Managing Climate Change Risks in Coastal
Communities: Strategies for Engagement, Readiness and Adaptation. London, UK: Anthem Press.
Susskind, L. & Rumore, D. (2015). Using devising seminars to advance collaborative problem solving in
complicated public policy disputes. Negotiation Journal, 31(3): 223-235.
Rumore, D. (2014). Building the capacity of coastal communities to adapt to climate change through
participatory action research. Carolina Planning Journal, 39, 16-23.




                                                                                                             4
Susskind, L. & Rumore, D. (2013). Collective climate adaptation: Can games make a difference?. The
Solutions Journal, 4(1): 19-24.


SELECT FELLOWSHIPS, SCHOLARSHIPS, AND AWARDS
Rob Williams Award for Emerging Environment and Public Policy Leaders, Association for Conflict
Resolution, 2018.
John S. Hennessy Fellowship for Environmental Studies, MIT, 2014—2015.
Martin Family Fellowship for Sustainability Studies, MIT, 2014—2015.
MIT Public Service Center Fellowship, MIT, 2013, 2014, 2015.
Climate CoLab Contest Winner, MIT, 2013.
MIT Presidential Fellowship, MIT, 2011—2012.
Fulbright Continuation Scholarship, University of Auckland, 2009.
Fulbright Graduate Student Fellowship, United State Department of State, 2007—2008.
Dean’s Scholarship in the College of Science, Oregon State University, 2006—2007.
Environmental Science Departmental Scholarship, Oregon State University, 2006—2007.


SELECT INVITED TALKS
Collaboration and Partnerships around National Parks. Qinghai Administration for Sanjiangyuan National
Park: Short Course on Managing Outdoor Recreation and Tourism, Salt Lake City, Utah, 2018.
Collaboration 101 for Planners. Utah American Planning Association Conference (keynote), Hurricane,
Utah, 2018.
Resilient Communities and Disasters. Building Resilient Communities Conference, Utah, 2018.
Collaboration, Leadership, and Effective Risk Communication for Climate Change Adaptation. Utah
Climate Action Network (keynote), Salt Lake City, UT, 2017.
Collaborative Planning in the Zion Region. Women in Transportation Seminar Retreat, Springdale, UT,
2016.
Water Diplomacy: Theories, Tools, and Techniques. Oregon State University Water Cooperation and
Peace Seminar Series, Corvallis, OR, 2016.
Collaborative Planning: A Tool for Helping Gateway Communities Thrive. Utah Outdoor Recreation
Summit, Cedar City, UT, 2016.
Best Practices for Communicating about Risk and Vulnerability and Engaging the Community in Planning.
Cape Coastal Conference, Hyannis, MA, 2015.
Negotiation and Dispute Resolution for Planners. Utah American Planning Association Chapter
Conference, Lehi, UT, 2015.
Using Vulnerability Assessments and Role Play Scenarios to Facilitate Climate Adaptation in National
Estuarine Research Reserve System (NERRS) Communities. NERRS Annual Meeting, Shepherdstown, WV,
2014.




                                                                                                      5
Assessing the Social Landscape for Adaptation: Lessons Learned from the New England Climate
Adaptation Project. New Hampshire Climate Summit III, Great Bay National Estuarine Research Reserve,
NH, 2014.


SELECT RECENT CONFERENCE PRESENTATIONS AND POSTERS
Planning Across Boundaries: A Regional Approach, Mountain and Resort Town Planners Summit,
Canmore, British Columbia, 2018.
Gateway and Natural Amenity Region Initiative, Utah Outdoor Recreation Summit, Heber, UT, 2018.
Planning in Gateway and Natural Amenity Regions, Association of Collegiate Schools of Planning
Conference, Buffalo, NY, 2018
Collaborative Regional Planning: A Tool for Helping Gateway and Small Resort owns Thrive, Rocky
Mountain Land Use Institute, Denver, CO, 2017.
Leadership and Planning, American Planning Association National Planning Conference, New York City,
NY, 2017.
Advancing the Evaluation of Collaboration Governance Through Research and Pracademic Collaboration,
University Network for Collaborative Governance Annual Meeting, Portland, OR, 2016.
Collaborative Regional Planning: A Tool for Helping Gateway Communities Thrive. Presentation and
Session Organizer. Association of Collegiate Schools of Planning Conference, Portland, OR, 2016.
Serious Games, Serious Learning: An Evaluation of the Effectiveness of Role-Play Simulations as a Public
Education and Engagement Tool for Science-Intensive Planning Issues. Presentation. Association of
Collegiate Schools of Planning Conference, Houston, TX, 2016.
Role-Play Simulations: A Tool for Building Capacity for Adaptation. Presentation. Association of Conflict
Resolution Environment and Public Policy Section Conference, Denver, CO, 2015.
Facilitating Collaborative Problem-Solving for a Changing Arctic: The Case of the Devising Seminar on
Arctic Fisheries. Poster. Arctic Frontiers, Tromsø, Norway, 2015.


SELECT TRAININGS AND WORKSHOPS (AS TRAINER/FACILITATOR)
Short Course on Effective Natural Resources Collaboration, Salt Lake City, UT, 2016, 2017, 2018. Co-
developing and co-instructing a multi-session professional training on the art and science of
collaborative problem solving, with a focus on environmental and natural resources issues in Utah.
Collaboration and Forest Service Plan Revision, Vernal, UT, 2018. Co-developed and co-instructed a two-
day training on collaboration and forest plan revision for the Ashley National Forest.
2017 Utah Forum on Collaboration, Salt Lake City, UT, 2017. Co-organized, developed content for, and
facilitated the second Utah Forum on Collaboration, which brought together 30 high-level state and
federal agency personnel to discuss opportunities and challenges for advancing natural resources and
environmental collaboration in the State of Utah.
Facilitation for Professionals, Salt Lake City, UT, 2017. Co-developed and co-instructed a basic and
advanced facilitation training for Salt Lake City staff.
2015 Utah Forum on Collaboration, Salt Lake City, UT, 2015. Co-organized, developed content for, and
facilitated the first Utah Forum on Collaboration, which brought together 40 high-level state and federal



                                                                                                            6
agency personnel to discuss opportunities and challenges for advancing natural resources and
environmental collaboration in the State of Utah.
Water Diplomacy Workshop, Cambridge, MA, 2013, 2014, 2015. Managed, supported content
development for, and co-facilitated the annual week-long Water Diplomacy Workshop, a training in
mutual gains approaches to water management for international water professionals, in collaboration
with colleagues from MIT, Tufts University, and other nearby institutions.
Assessment, Engagement, and Collective Action–A Toolbox for Climate Adaptation Planning, Providence,
RI, 2014. Co-organized and facilitated a training on tools and approaches for local adaptation planning
for the Southern New England American Planning Association Conference.
New England Climate Adaptation Project Educators Trainings, New England, 2013, 2014. Developed
content for two full-day trainings showing educators how to use role-play simulations to teach about
climate change risks and adaptation in their classrooms.
Indus River Water Managers Training, Islamabad, Pakistan, 2012. Led content development for,
designed a role-play simulation for, and co-facilitated a training on mutual gains approaches to water
management for Indus River water managers, in collaboration with colleagues from Harvard University.


SELECT FACILITATION AND MEDIATION PROJECTS (AS LEAD FACILITATOR)
Collaborative Governance Scholarship and Research Retreat, Teton National Park, WY, 2018. Co-
organized and facilitated a multi-day research retreat on collaborative governance and scholarship,
which culminated in pathways forward for continued research collaboration and the underpinnings of a
shared research agenda.
Bonner Community Collaborative, Sandpoint, ID, 2016—present. Helped catalyze and continue to
facilitate an ongoing regional planning collaborative addressing key planning and livability issues in the
greater Sandpoint region of Bonner County, Idaho.
Zion Regional Collaborative, Springdale, UT, 2015—present. Helped catalyze and continue to facilitate an
ongoing regional planning collaborative addressing key planning and visitation-related issues in the Zion
National Park region of southern Utah.
Town of Springdale Lodging Forum, Springdale, UT, 2017. Developed and facilitated a community-
learning forum for the Town of Springdale to assist the town in addressing community angst related to
rapid development of hotels and other tourist lodging. Developed and administered a public survey to
collect additional community input.
Town of Rockville Community Forums, Rockville, UT, 2015 and 2016. Developed and facilitated two
community-learning forums for the Town of Rockville, one focused on culinary water issues in the town
and the other focused on how to proceed with rehabilitating or replacing the historical truss bridge.
Environmental Water Transactions Workshops, Boulder, CO and Phoenix, AZ, 2016. Facilitated
workshops aimed at identifying key opportunities and challenges for advancing environmental water
transaction tools and approaches in CO and AZ, which were convened by The Nature Conservancy.
New England Climate Adaptation Project Community Workshops, Cambridge, MA, 2013. Organized,
developed content for, and facilitated six climate change adaptation capacity-building workshops in New
England communities as part of the New England Climate Adaptation Project. Oversaw and trained
facilitators and staff for more than 20 additional workshops.




                                                                                                             7
SELECT TRAININGS (AS PARTICIPANT)
University of Utah Grant Writing Academy, Deer Valley, UT, 2016. Multi-day immersive grant writing
academy focused on developing a National Science Foundation proposal.
UiT Young Scientist Forum, Tromsø, Norway, 2015. Two-week interdisciplinary research training for early
career researchers, culminating in the development of a multi-disciplinary research proposal.
Exercising Leadership, Harvard University, Cambridge, MA, 2014. Semester-long experiential learning
course on the practice and theory of leadership, with an emphasis on distinguishing leadership from
authority and exercising leadership for adaptive challenges, taught by Professor Ronald Heifetz.
MIT-Imperial College Global Fellows Program, Imperial College, Wokingham, UK, 2014. Weeklong
intensive training in small group work and leadership for collaborative interdisciplinary research.
MIT Teaching Certificate Program, MIT, Cambridge, MA, 2013. Weeklong intensive training program
teaching course design, best practice for teaching, and teaching theory.


SELECT SERVICE
2015—present University Network for Collaborative Governance                         National
             Steering Committee Co-Chair (2018—present) and general member (2015—2018)
             Conference Planning Committee member (2016-2018)
2018—present Association for Conflict Resolution Environment and Public Policy Section            National
             Leadership Council Ex-Officio Member (2018—present)
2015—present Global Change and Sustainability Center                                   University of Utah
             College Representative
2015—present Center for Ecological Planning and Design                                 University of Utah
             Steering Committee member




                                                                                                        8
