Alta Town Council

Staff Report




To: Town Council
From: Chris Cawley, Assistant Town Administrator
Re: Planning for a New Town of Alta Community Center
Date: January 2, 2020
Attachments: Town of Alta Community Center Feasibility Study RFP (DRAFT)




Background

In the 2019 Town of Alta Capital Projects Plan, the Alta Town Council approved roughly
$75,000 for a “Town of Alta Facilities Programming Project.” The description of the
project is as follows:

       The Town of Alta has completed Community Center facility planning projects
       over the course of the last 15 years. The Town has also acquired land from the
       federal government in the last three years, a portion of which has been deemed
       an acceptable location for the future community center. The Town wishes to
       take the first step toward developing a community center, by pursuing a
       conceptual design and facility programming plan for the community center
       parcel. It is recommended that the programming element of this project also
       consider current uses of existing Town of Alta facilities, including the Town
       Office, Alta Central, and the Community Center/Post Office/Fire Station.

Over the last few months, staff has developed an approach to fulfilling this
opportunity by speaking with architects, consultants, and colleagues at other
municipalities; researching past community center studies undertaken in Alta;
and drafting a request for proposal (RFP) that has changed shape a number of
times in order to reach the scope we are presenting to the council in January,
2020.

Prior to introducing the RFP, I will note that the study it lays out is slightly more limited
than the scope of work envisioned in the project description captured in the capital
projects plan. Specifically, it does not entail a study of “current uses of existing Town of
Alta facilities,” although it would certainly involve analysis of the uses of the current
community center. While the original intent was to create something like a facilities
master plan, which would map out all of the town’s buildings in order to understand
opportunities to repurpose existing square footage as we plan for a new community
center facility, we determined the project may yield a stronger result if the scope were
more limited to studying a single building, given the budget for the study is fixed to a
certain amount—and given the complexities community center development will
inevitably entail.

I will also note that the approach set forth in the RFP differs from an approach we
recently reported to the council we were considering, which was that we previously
considered contracting with consultants on a much smaller project to simply help us
draft this RFP. In the meantime, we were able to receive expert input on how to
structure the RFP, and what to expect we could produce given our budget, from an
architect who are not eligible to bid on a future Town of Alta project, but who know the
community and are familiar with previous community center planning efforts, and from
other individuals familiar with the community, and experienced in soliciting design and
other professional services.


Town of Alta Community Center Feasibility Study RFP

The RFP contains a substantial amount of background information on previous attempts
to plan for a new community center facility in Alta. Our goal with including this material
is to illustrate to potential bidders, and to the public, that the concept of developing a
new community center is not new, so that we avoid duplicating previous efforts, and
then either modify and adopt some version of the facility program identified in the past
or develop a new facility program entirely. We would go from there to study the
structural parameters of a conceptual facility, and then the range of probable costs for
facility design and development.

Staff is presenting the draft RFP to the town council to illustrate how we propose to take
our first step toward developing a new community center. We are open to comments
on our approach and anticipate a discussion of the RFP by the council at the meeting.
We propose to finalize and publish the RFP sometime early this year, and to complete
the study by early 2021.




                                                                                           2
                          REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS - DRAFT
                PROJECT: Town of Alta Community Center Feasibility Study
                              CLIENT: Town of Alta, Utah
                     RFP RELEASE DATE: ______________________
                     RFP CLOSING DATE: ______________________
                              PROCUREMENT CONTACT:
                              John Guldner or Chris Cawley
                                     801-742-3522
                    Jguldner@townofalta.com; Ccawley@townofalta.com

       1.   Introduction

The Town of Alta, Utah is in the early stages of planning to build a community center.
Developing a large, multi-purpose, public facility has been a long-range goal for the Alta
community for many years, during which time the Town and other entities have utilized existing
buildings to provide functions that may be relocated to a new facility at various locations
throughout Alta. In 2015, the United States Forest Service conveyed parcels of National Forest
System land to the Town under the Town’s municipal buildings, as well as an undeveloped, 1.3-
acre, roadside parcel in central Alta. More recently, the Town has been exploring funding
options for facility design and construction, and with the confluence of these two developments,
the Town has decided to move forward with the first steps toward designing a community
center.

The Town has engaged architects on two other occasions in the past to envision and evaluate
the feasibility of creating a new community center. These projects have yielded provisional
assumptions about the size of a community center facility, the uses it would satisfy, and rough
cost estimates. Constraints and opportunities have shifted recently, as changes in the profile of
the Alta community, the proposed site of the project, and other factors obligate the town to test
historical assumptions about project feasibility and costs and determine a facility program that
will satisfy the community’s needs today and in the future.

       2.   Background

   Current Town of Alta Facilities

The Town of Alta owns four buildings, including the Town Office building, which contains
administrative offices and one office space rented by a non-profit organization; Alta Central,
which is the police department headquarters and housing; a water treatment facility; and a
multipurpose facility previously known as the Alta Fire House but currently known as the Alta
Community Center. The current community center houses a contract US Post Office, a Salt
Lake County Library System Reading Room, office space for two nonprofits, a meeting space

                                      1 – 2020/1/2 DRAFT
with seating for roughly 50 people where the town holds public meetings including Alta Justice
Court hearings, one town employee housing unit, and three large vehicle bays used for storage
of town equipment. Portions of the community center are used to host Alta Historical Society
and Alta Community Enrichment exhibits, and the town rents the meeting space to various
groups for education and community events. The current Alta Community Center contains
roughly 3885 gross square feet. A key motivation for developing a new community center is that
many of these facilities, including the current community center are aging, small and minimally
equipped, and difficult to access for various reasons.

   Program Elements Identified in Previous Studies

In 2002 and 2003, the Town of Alta and Alta Community Enrichment (ACE), a local nonprofit
organization, partnered to hire architects to study the feasibility of substantially renovating or
entirely rebuilding the current Alta Community Center in its current location. The study included
analysis of the current facility, analysis of public input leading up to that point, additional public
input, and development of preliminary schematic design drawings for a facility totaling 10,904
gross square feet. The drawings represented a facility program including the following uses:

   •   Library
   •   Kitchen
   •   Education Area
   •   Classrooms (2)
   •   Education storage and prep. area
   •   Post Office
   •   Public restrooms
   •   Vehicle storage/maintenance area
   •   Large Group Multi-use area – to accommodate 125 persons
   •   Art Display area
   •   Historical Artifact Display/Document area
   •   A.C.E. Office area
   •   Alta City Information Office
   •   Janitor’s closet – Building Storage
   •   One apartment

In 2007 and 2008, the Town and ACE pursued a second study for a new community center.
This study was conducted by an architectural student, and it included many of the same
program elements, with several key assumptions not included in the first study:

   •   A new facility would be located on the site of the Town of Alta drinking water treatment
       facility, which occupies an historic mine tunnel entrance along S.R. 210
   •   Dedicated space for the Alta School, a one-room, K-8 satellite Canyons School District
       facility currently housed at the Goldminer’s Daughter, a local hotel.

                                        2 – 2020/1/2 DRAFT
   •   Recreation amenities such as a basketball court would be built into the large multi-
       purpose room
   •   Commercial space for one or two food service or light retail outlets

In 2015, the Town of Alta launched a general planning effort to envision future development in
the Town of Alta “Commercial Core,” leading to what is known as the Commercial Core Plan.
The process leading to the finalization of this plan included substantial public input regarding
potential locations for a new community center, and the plan itself sites the facility on the
“community center parcel” described below. One key element of the vision for a community
center captured in the commercial core planning process, and commonly described as a
component of a future community center in recent years, is that such a facility would provide
space and amenities suitable for local hotels to host conference groups. Conferences and
events are common components in the summer economy of ski area communities, although
most facilities in Alta lack space for larger group meetings. Another common assumption that
developed during this planning effort is that a community center in this location would be an
ideal location to provide a central Alta trailhead for nearby National Forest System summer trails
and to routes used by backcountry skiers and snowshoers in the winter season. Such a
trailhead could replace the “Cardiff Pass” and “Twin Lakes Pass” trailheads in a centralized
location with trailhead amenities including signage and restrooms accessible 24 hours per day.

While the preferred site and specific functions for a new community center have changed over
time, the intent of community center visioning and development remains the same: to build
community for Alta residents and locals by providing a dedicated space that resolves limitations
and restrictions associated with current facilities. Future community center studies should
assume the list of uses described above as a starting point for a conceptual facility program.

Links to these documents, hosted on the Town of Alta website, will be provided under section
11.

   The Community Center Parcel

The Town received 1.3 acres of land from the United States Forest Service in 2015. The land is
situated north of S.R. 210 and east of the “Photohaus” property in central Alta. A portion of the
parcel consists of what is currently a paved area used for public, overnight and day-use parking,
and the rest of the parcel is sloped and vegetated or bearing exposed rock. The parcel is either
flat or generally facing south.

A key constraint to development on this parcel is the parcel’s exposure to avalanche hazard.
According to UDOT Highway Avalanche Safety Program and USFS records, the path(s)
affecting the project site produce an avalanche that reaches the adjacent roadway, and which
could thus affect the project site, roughly once every 10 years, although no avalanches have
reached the roadway from these paths since 1998. This will be a primary factor in facility design,
project cost, and selection of program elements that must be considered from the outset of the
visioning and design process. Many buildings in Alta, and substantial portions of S.R. 210

                                      3 – 2020/1/2 DRAFT
through Alta, are subject to avalanche hazard, and the Town requires developers and property
owners to engage an “avalanche expert” to evaluate site-specific hazard and design proposed
facilities or modifications to withstand avalanches of a certain magnitude,

Like everywhere in Alta, the project site is subject to extreme weather, with snow depths at a
nearby UDOT snow study plot reaching a maximum height of 125” in an average year, with
snowpack height occasionally reaching more than 200”. This condition has implications for both
the facility itself and for construction of the facility.

See section 11 for a link to graphics depicting the Community Center Parcel.

   Ongoing Utah Department of Transportation (UDOT) S.R. 210 Environmental Impact
   Statement

The proposed project site directly abuts state highway S.R. 210, also known as Little
Cottonwood Canyon Road. UDOT is currently conducting an Environmental Impact Statement
(EIS) process to evaluate roadway capacity and transit projects on S.R. 210. The EIS may
include an effort to identify a location and preliminary design for an Alta transit center, which
would potentially function as the primary, or only Alta station for a mass transit system in the
canyon. One potential location for the facility is directly across S.R. 210 from the proposed
project site. Given the potential for synergy between the two conceptual facilities, coordination
between the Town of Alta project and the UDOT S.R. 210 would be wise. The EIS may also
provide opportunities to design and implement changes to the roadway in Alta including
pedestrian and cycling facilities, traffic calming elements, and wayfinding or aesthetic features,
all of which could impact the area surrounding the community center parcel. Visit the UDOT EIS
website here: https://www.udot.utah.gov/littlecottonwoodeis/

   Additional Assumptions About a New Community Center

   ●    Design and construction budget between $10 million and $15 million.
   ●    Funding sources may include general obligation or revenue bonding, private donations,
        Town of Alta general fund appropriation, grants, and other sources.
   ●    It is assumed that the facility will be constructed and operated to the highest feasible
        standards for energy efficiency and other environmental standards.

        3.   Project Goals

The Town seeks to answer basic questions about the proposed facility before pursuing later
stages in the design process:

    ●    What functions will the facility provide?
    ●    What are the structural parameters of the facility given the functions or uses it provides,
         as well as the constraints and opportunities posed by the project site, including
         avalanche hazard?

                                       4 – 2020/1/2 DRAFT
    ●    What is the project likely to cost, and how can it be completed within the Town’s
         budget?

        4.   Scope of Project and Services

   •    Feasibility: in light of previous studies and public input, unique constraints and conditions
        on the project site including avalanche exposure, the Town’s financial resources, and
        other factors, evaluate the feasibility of developing a new community center on the
        community center parcel.
   •    Programming: analyze previous studies and public input, as well as background
        information provided in section 2 of this document, to study options for uses and
        functions provided in the proposed facility.
   •    Preliminary schematic design: develop drawings in order to visualize facility program and
        understand structural implications. The Town accepts that a comprehensive design
        process following this study will entail additional schematic design work.
   •    Opinion of probable costs, construction planning: study and report on the following:
        o Design and permitting fees
        o Construction costs
        o Identification of primary drivers of construction costs
        o Design and construction project schedule
   •    Public Engagement: It is critical that this project entails engagement with Alta community
        members and the Alta Town Council. Respondent’s proposed scope of work or work
        plan should include at least one community meeting and at least one presentation to the
        Alta Town Council. Public engagement should be used to evaluate facility programming
        options and other elements of the project.

        5.   Project Budget

The Town has reserved approximately $75,000 for the project.

        6.   Time and Place of Submission of Proposals

Via email in .pdf format, to John Guldner at Jhg@townofalta.com and Chris Cawley at
Ccawley@townofalta.com, by 5:00 PM on ______________________.

        7.   Anticipated Selection Schedule

The Town of Alta intends to notify selected respondent by ______________________.

        8.   Elements of Proposal

   a. Letter or memorandum describing respondent’s understanding of the project
   b. Proposed work plan or scope of work

                                       5 – 2020/1/2 DRAFT
c.   Statement of respondent’s qualifications to complete the project
d.   Client references
e.   Proposed project timeline
f.   Proposed fee

     9.   Evaluation Criteria

a.   Respondent’s qualifications and portfolio
b.   Respondent’s demonstrated understanding of the project
c.   Proposed scope of work
d.   References
e.   Proposed fee

     10. Additional Notes


a. The Town reserves the right to withdraw this RFP at any time and is not obligated to
   make an award.
b. Selected respondent will remain eligible to bid on subsequent projects.
c. Potential respondents may ask questions by emailing procurement contacts listed above
   by January 17th, 2019.
d. Potential bidders may not contact Town of Alta officials directly following the publication
   of this RFP other than via email; noncompliance may result in disqualification. The Town
   will compile information it provides to individual potential respondents and post such
   compilations on the Town of Alta Website weekly between the publication and this RFP
   and ____________________.

     11. Attachments


a.   Map of Community Center Parcel: https://townofalta.com/toa_comm_center_8x11/
b.   2003 Study: https://townofalta.com/2003-ema-schematic-booklet/
c.   2008 Study: https://townofalta.com/2008-cc-da-study/
d.   Commercial Core Plan: https://townofalta.com/wp-
     content/uploads/2016/01/CommCorePlan_08Dec2016.pdf and
     https://townofalta.com/wp-
     content/uploads/2016/12/CommCorePlan_Appendices_08Dec2016.pdf




                                   6 – 2020/1/2 DRAFT
