   MAYOR                                                                                 TOWN OF ALTA
HARRIS SONDAK                                                                             P.O. BOX 8016
                                                                                            ALTA, UTAH
TOWN COUNCIL                                                                                84092-8016
MARGARET BOURKE
   CLIFF CURRY
 SHERIDAN DAVIS                                                                    TEL (801)363-5105 / 742-3522
  ELISE MORGAN                                                                          FAX (801)742-1006
                                                                                             TTY 711




                                                                                 December 30, 2019

Dear Members of the Town Council,

I am writing to brief you on the challenging situation that Alta now faces in respect to our fees to
the Unified Fire Authority (UFA). This is a very complicated issue that is the result of a number of
independently made but now interacting decisions by various entities. No one intended for Alta to
be challenged in this way, I think, but the fact is that we are.


I. Some Background

The UFA has four members: Alta, Cottonwood Heights, Holladay, and the Unified Fire Service Area
(to which SL County and all other municipalities served by the UFA in turn belong). The latter is a
taxing district that collects money directly from property owners, while the three municipalities
collect taxes and remit fees to the UFA from their own revenues per contracts with the UFA.

Prior to the creation of the UFA, Alta paid for a portion of the costs of a County firefighter at the fire
station in Snowbird (now known as UFA Station 113). This arrangement continued until a couple of
years ago. With a change in management at the UFA (following a financial controversy), the newly
appointed Chief Dan Petersen and his CFO Tony Hill worked hard to rationalize their accounting and
get real control of UFA’s finances. They also determined with the UFA Board’s approval that their
system of allocating costs would be tied to the actual deployment of personnel and equipment from
the various stations. They entered into an informal agreement with Mayor Tom Pollard that Alta
would cover 7.5% of the costs for Station 113. Only Alta had an arrangement for a flat fee. That
change led to a jump in our fees to the UFA from about $120,000 in 2017-18 to about $145,000 in
2018-19 (in 2019-20 about $153,000).

Although the agreement called for Alta paying 7.5% of the costs, the actual deployment of Station
113 to the Town of Alta is about 29% of the calls. The total cost for providing UFA services to the
Town, therefore, is actually about $627,000. In 2018 the UFA didn’t pursue the difference in Alta’s
use of 29% of services and our payment covering 7.5% because they were receiving additional
money from other sources that made up that difference. The difference between what we pay and
what we cost the UFA has been covered by three sources: 1) a small annual credit of excess
revenues by the UFA, when they occur (these are allocated proportionally to lower the fees of all


                                                                                                             1
members); 2) allocations from Salt Lake County’s general fund in the form of a “recreational area
contribution” for the canyons of the Wasatch Front; and, 3) other UFA members’ fees (because the
County’s recreational area contribution of about $3.1M is about $300,000 lower than the costs of
actually providing UFA service in the canyons). That is, Alta’s UFA services have been highly
subsidized by the County and, to a lesser extent, other members of UFA.


II. What Changed?

Unfortunately, conditions that supported this subsidy have changed. Here is an outline of my
understanding of the major relevant factors:

   •   Residents of Big Cottonwood Canyon began to organize an incorporation effort to create
       the Town of Brighton.
   •   SL County’s District Attorney issued an opinion that the County’s general fund may not be
       used to provide municipal services in municipalities. This opinion implied that were
       Brighton to incorporate, they would lose their recreational area contribution subsidy. (And
       this opinion did not bode well for Alta, as you will see.)
   •   The Utah legislature passed a bill that allowed SL County to create a Mountainous Planning
       District (MPD). Such a district must be in an area used for recreation and if a municipality is
       included in the MPD that municipality must not have been incorporated prior to 2015.
   •   The Utah legislature passed a bill that allows SL County to designate recreation areas and to
       provide public safety money for recreation areas and municipalities within them.
   •   As part of the unincorporated SL County, residents in Big Cottonwood Canyon, like those in
       Little Cottonwood Canyon outside of the Town of Alta, have been served by UFA (as part of
       the Unified Fire Service Area) and by the Unified Police Department (UPD). The Town of
       Brighton will continue to be a member of UFSA and will continue to be served by UPD.
   •   The County negotiated with Brighton to link their public safety subsidy to their entry into
       the Mountainous Planning District. The County, in other words, received zoning control over
       the new town of Brighton in exchange for subsidizing Brighton’s public safety services. This
       arrangement is of obvious financial value to Brighton and because some at the County were
       not confident that a new Town of Brighton would adequately limit development and protect
       the watershed, this arrangement provides environmental protection value to the County.
   •   The County Council had to take two actions to implement the arrangement with Brighton:
       they had to create a formal Recreation Area and they had to allocate money in their budget.
       They recently took both actions. The County is on a calendar year budget cycle (unlike Alta
       and the UFA), and the recently approved 2020 budget continues current levels of funding
       for the Recreation Area contribution to the UFA. But in creating the Recreation Area and
       defining its boundaries, the County Council’s resolution explicitly excluded the Town of Alta.
       I have been told that they did this “to respect Alta’s existing arrangements for public
       safety.” (In fact, it jeopardizes them.)
   •   UFA is trying to normalize its former “handshake” deals and is implementing a uniform
       accounting approach for all members.




                                                                                                    2
III. The Current Situation

The problem, now, is that the UFA sees the current regulatory context as precluding any accounting
of the County’s Recreation Area contribution against Alta’s costs. Thus, the subsidy of the
difference between what Alta pays and what Alta receives either (a) must be paid in another way
than from the County’s Recreation Area contribution or (b) go away. The issue is timely because
the UFA will soon begin budgeting for 2020-21.

One possible solution is that the UFA members will agree simply to absorb the difference. The Chief
is very skeptical that the other members of the UFA will agree to subsidize Alta to this degree on
their own, especially indefinitely. As a member of the finance committee of the UFA Board, I agree
with the Chief.

I am currently working with the County mayor’s office to find another way for the County to provide
money to the UFA that can be accounted against our costs. In addition to Mayor Wilson and her
staff, I have engaged members of the County Council in this effort and some are sympathetic. The
issue, however, from the point of view of the mayor’s staff, is that the County has an arrangement
with Brighton that includes the County having control of Brighton’s zoning.

One compelling datum is that Alta has averaged in the last three years about 84 service calls from
Station 113 per year. Given our population of 383, that number of calls is about four times what
one would expect. It is clear to all who are engaged with this issue that County residents and
visitors are the source of the high volume of service calls to Alta and to most participants in the
discussion that means that Alta deserves some help from the County. I have also engaged our state
legislators on the issue, arguing that the state, like the County, ought to chip in to provide services
to the visitors who come to Alta and the surrounding areas.

Moreover, typical per capita costs for fire protection are lower than what we already pay. In
Cottonwood Heights, for example, the cost is about $116 per resident and our current fees amount
to about $400 per resident. It is not obvious to me that we have been paying too little.

Despite this, one fact that is problematic in our negotiations is that residents of Alta are paying
significantly less for fire protection services than others in Salt Lake Valley. Both UFA and the
County, for example, pointed out that a homeowner in Snowbird pays significantly more for fire
protection than one in Alta.


IV. What Can We Do?

My expectation is that one way or another our fire protection costs are going to increase. How
much they increase depends on the extent of the subsidies we receive. Here are four possible
avenues if we cannot secure continuing subsidies that are similar to those we have now:

    1. We could pay station 113’s costs based on our actual usage (currently 29% or $627,000) and
       raise the money to make up whatever we don’t receive as subsidies through increased


                                                                                                      3
      property taxes or use sales tax money. We could also create a new transient room tax.
      However, with this approach we will have less money for other town needs, and sales tax
      dollars are unreliable because in lean snow years we will still have the obligation to make
      full payment based on our usage.
   2. We could try to move to a similar arrangement with SL County as Brighton. For this to be
      legal, however, Utah code would have to be changed to allow us to enter the Mountainous
      Planning District. Entering the MPD entails giving up control of our zoning. (I have stressed
      in my conversations that Alta has a 50-year history of being trustworthy and that some of
      our zoning is tighter than the County’s and that therefore there is no need for us to join the
      MPD.)
   3. The County mayor’s office and UFA have suggested that we join the UFSA rather than
      maintain a contracted arrangement with the UFA. Doing so would mean that our property
      owners would be taxed directly by UFSA for fire services. The total paid by our property
      owners in that case would increase to about $533,000 – property tax bills would increase
      about 15%.
   4. We could leave the UFA and create our own fire service. Having our own fire service,
      however, could well be more expensive than joining the UFSA. Even reverting to a volunteer
      service might not actually save property tax payers money because savings from the fire
      service are likely to be offset by increases to the cost of fire insurance. I’ve been told that
      many carriers are likely simply to refuse to provide such insurance. In addition, not
      participating in the UFA also would mean delays and decreases in the reliability of
      emergency transport, which is the reason for the great majority of the service calls to Alta.


V. My Continuing Efforts

I am continuing to work very hard with the UFA, the County mayor’s office, the County Council, and
with state legislators to address these problems. I have met face to face several times with officials
and representatives in an effort to stay as close to the status quo as possible. These discussions
center around three points: 1) Alta’s public safety services serve many more people than just the
town’s residents; 2) Alta has been caught by forces over which it had no control and no fault in
creating; and 3) Alta has been paying a remarkably low fee for its fire service compared to other SL
County residents.

I have been using the first two of these points as foundational to my efforts to secure continuing
subsidies. The mayor’s staff thinks the third point is obviously true. For example, they highlight
that just across Alta’s boundaries in Snowbird, property owners are served by Station 113 just like
we are and, being in the unincorporated County, have long paid the UFSA tax rate. Furthermore,
our fire service costs in 2018-19 were about 18% of our police service costs rather than a more
typical amount; in Draper, for example, that ratio is 66%.


VI. My Current Request of You

I have attached a memo from the UFA’s leadership to me that lays out some of the information I’ve
shared with you in this briefing memo. The next step is for you to spend some time understanding


                                                                                                      4
what I’ve described in this memo plus what Chief Petersen sent me. Doing so will help you gain
substantial background in this issue and the choices we face. Please consider carefully which
approach to paying for fire service in Alta is best.

Thank you for your attention to this matter.

Sincerely,




Harris Sondak
Mayor, Town of Alta




                                                                                                 5
