Alta Town Council

Staff Report




To: Town of Alta Staff, Mayor and Town Council
From: Chris Cawley, Assistant Town Administrator/Emergency Manager
Re: COVID-19 Preparedness in Alta
Date: March 11, 2020
Attachments: In-text links (see below)


COVID-19 Facts @ 1600 hrs. 3/11/2020
SYMPTOMS: Cough, fever over 100.4, shortness of breath
3 confirmed cases in State of Utah: Weber/Morgan Health District; Davis County, Summit
County. All patients with history of recent travel to areas with community spread of COVID-19.
UT Department of Health advises community spread of COVID-19 IS NOT OCCURING IN UTAH
        -**This means that patients reporting COVID-19 symptoms that have not TRAVELLED to
        areas with high COVID-19 activity OR had direct contact with COVID-19-positive
        individuals are determined NOT TO HAVE COVID-19**
Individuals can carry COVID-19 and exhibit no symptoms or only minor symptoms
Individuals over 60 are at highest risk of illness due to COVID-19

What the Town is Doing:
Coordinating with Salt Lake County (SLCO) Health, SLCO Emergency Management, which have
declared state of emergency
Coordinating Alta Community Readiness
Developing Continuity of Operations Plan for Town operations
Keeping local declaration of emergency on stand-by should the need arise

Specific Guidance to Hotels from Salt Lake County Health:
Salt Lake County Health Department recommends that businesses and employers, including
public lodging, prepare for illnesses and the resulting isolation or quarantine by doing the
following things:
     • Require sick employees to stay home, or in Alta’s situation that may mean isolating them
         to their room
     • Ensure that sick leave policies are consistent with public health guidance in that calling
         out sick does not result in a financial (or other) penalty to the employee
     • Get in the habit now of practicing good hand hygiene and good cough etiquette, and
         encourage employees and customers/guests to do the same
     • Begin practicing routine environmental cleaning of frequently touched surfaces, such as
         door knobs, railings, communal surfaces, etc.
    •   Ensure you have at least a two week supply of food, over-the-counter medicines
        (particularly medicines for respiratory illnesses), and other essential supplies for
        everyone in the facility, both staff and guests.
    •   Make a plan for the potential that events and gatherings will need to be cancelled. Will
        business operations need to change if people shouldn’t congregate; i.e., can meals all be
        taken in-room rather than a communal dining room, etc.?

Town of Alta Reporting Protocol:

DO NOT SEND INDIVIDUALS WITH SYMPTOMS OF RESPIRATORY ILLESS TO ALTA MEDICAL
CLINIC. INSTRUCT INDIVIDUALS WITH COUGH, FEVER, SHORTNESS OF BREATH TO REMAIN IN
THEIR ROOMS AND FOLLOW THE STEPS BELOW:

**Please note that this does not correspond with the protocol we discussed this morning. Steps
have been taken out because UT is not reporting community spread. Reporting and response
protocols across the State of Utah are subject to change as cases increase and if/when Utah
experiences community spread.**

    1. If a lodging guest or live-up employee reports the SYMPTOMS, individual OR lodge
       manager calls:
             a. Medical Provider
                       i. Individual’s provider
                      ii. Alta Medical Clinic between 9 AM and 5 PM-801-742-2273
                     iii. UT Coronavirus Hotline 800-456-7707 (when Alta Medical Clinic is
                          closed) (patients will be prompted to indicate SYMPTOMS and
                          appropriate travel/contact history)
             b. Medical provider will make determination of COVID-19 potential and contact
                health officials to report potential case and initiate testing
    2. Lodging managers encourage all sick guests and live-in employees to isolate regardless
       of illness.
             a. Lodge managers aware of individuals isolating themselves due to SYMPTOMS
                call Alta Central to report.
                       i. Alta Central to call deputy on duty, TOA Emergency Manager Chris
                          Cawley

What are we each doing in Alta?

-Waiving limits on paid sick leave for employees with SYMPTOMS of respiratory illness
-Alta Clinic considering how to provide “house calls” in order to avoid contaminating Alta Clinic
office
-Expressing concern for dorm spaces: dorm guests, employees in group housing use common
restrooms, come together from disparate travel origins
-Taking inventory of extraneous furniture items such as throw pillows and blankets that could
provide transmission surfaces
-Purchasing anti-viral housecleaning products
-Providing tubes of lodge-branded hand sanitizer to guests
-Planning for continuity of operations should numerous employees get sick, or should
employees or guests require quarantine on-site




                                                                                                    2
Town of Alta to research:

Further guidance on implementing, enforcing quarantine
Potential for dedicated quarantine facility/resources in Alta

Sources of Information:

UT Dept of Health Coronavirus Updates
SL County Health Coronavirus Information
UT Coronavirus Twitter
SL County Health Twitter




                                                                3
