Call for Short-Term Project Ideas

The Central Wasatch Commission is pleased to announce the launch of a Call for Ideas for
new projects ​specific to the project area of the Central Wasatch Commission, which includes
Millcreek Canyon, Big and Little Cottonwood Canyons, and Parley’s Corridor.
This Call for Ideas is specifically focused on ​projects that improve canyon transportation or
transit, protect the ecosystems or watershed originating in the project area, steward year-round
recreation, and sustain the economic viability of the Wasatch Canyons. These were the tenets
laid out during Mountain Accord, and form the basis for the work of the Central Wasatch
Commission.
BACKGROUND

The Central Wasatch Commission formed in 2017 through an interlocal agreement, and is
comprised of eight jurisdictions along the Central Wasatch Front and Back: Summit County,
Park City, Salt Lake County, Salt Lake City, Millcreek, Cottonwood Heights, Sandy City, and
Town of Alta. Its mission is to implement the Mountain Accord which laid out proposals for
addressing four major issue areas specific to the Central Wasatch Mountains: transportation,
economic viability, environmental sustainability, and recreation stewardship. The Central
Wasatch Commission carries out that objective through its work on the Central Wasatch
National Conservation and Recreation Area Act, partnerships with UDOT, UTA and other
transportation agencies to find canyon transportation solutions, and the Environmental
Dashboard.
Following the 2019 retreat of the Central Wasatch Commission Board, the Commission moved
to create three committees that would focus on issues pertaining to the Central Wasatch
National Conservation and Recreation Area Act and land tenure issues in the Central Wasatch,
transportation issues to consider a model for a broader mountain transportation system, and
short-term projects that would help further the goals of the Central Wasatch Commission by
identifying projects that implement transportation and transit solutions, protect the ecosystems
that originate in the Central Wasatch, steward recreational access, and sustain the economic
viability of the Cottonwood Canyons.
PURPOSE

The purpose of this Call for Ideas is to explore short term project ideas in the Central Wasatch
Commission project area that are largely “shovel-ready” that:

   ●   Do not require lengthy NEPA analysis, a project for which NEPA is already completed,
       or a project that is eligible for a Categorical Exclusion;
   ●   Can be implemented within 6-12 months of contract;
   ●   Do not request more than $20,000 total from the Central Wasatch Commission.
       Projects with dedicated funds from the applying entity, or community partners will
       be given increased weighting during the review process;
   ●   Are proposed by a non-profit organization, a community group, or private citizen.

PLEASE NOTE
   ●   This Call for Ideas is not a commitment to contract.
   ●   Selected ideas will be invited to submit a full project proposal including a project budget,
       timeline, and letters of support from appropriate land managers.
HOW TO SUBMIT YOUR IDEA

   ●   Complete the idea worksheet and attach your question responses (questions are
       below).
   ●   Multiple applications from an applicant are welcome, however please submit one
       application per idea.
   ●   The completed idea worksheet with the attached question responses ​should be
       submitted to the Central Wasatch Commission digitally by emailing Lindsey Nielsen at
       lindsey@cwc.utah.gov​. Submissions will be accepted on a rolling basis, though,
       priority will be given to ideas submitted before April 3rd, 2020.
QUESTIONS

   1. Briefly describe your idea. How will it implement transportation and transit solutions,
      protect the ecosystems that originate in the Central Wasatch, steward recreational
      access, or sustain the economic viability of the project area?
   2. Does this idea result in other benefits to the Central Wasatch and its users?
                             Project Idea Worksheet




Name of the project:


Location of the project:


Project contact person:

Project contact person email
address:

Project contact person phone
number:

Project category:                             Transportation/Transit     Recreational stewardship


                                              Environmental protection   Economic sustainability


Do you have community partners for
this project? Please list your partners, if
applicable:



What is the estimated total cost of the
project?

Roughly how long will it take to fully
implement the project?
