                         JOINT RESOLUTION
                              OF THE
           UNIFIED FIRE SERVICE AREA (Resolution No. ______)
                            AND OF THE
                TOWN OF ALTA (Resolution No. 2020-R-6)
  DECLARING AN INTENT TO ADJUST THE BOUNDARY OF THE UNITED FIRE
            SERVICE AREA TO INCLUDE THE TOWN OF ALTA

      WHEREAS, the Unified Fire Service Area (“UFSA”) is a special district for fire protection
and emergency medical services

        WHEREAS, the Town of Alta (“Alta”) is a municipal corporation and political subdivision
of the State of Utah;

        WHEREAS, having considered the matter, the Board of Trustees of UFSA and the Alta
Town Council have concluded that it is in the best interests of each and of the property owners and
future residents in the affected area for UFSA and Alta to adjust the boundary of the local district
to include the municipality, specifically to add the entire boundary of the Town of Alta to UFSA,
in accordance with the requirements of Utah Code Ann. § 17B-1-503 and § 17B-1-417.

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED and enacted by the Board of Trustees of the
Unified Fire Service Area and by the Alta Town Council as follows:

1.     That the Board of Trustees of UFSA and the Alta Town Council hereby declare their intent
to adjust the boundary of the UFSA to include the Town of Alta such that the “Affected Area,”
which is identified in attached Exhibit “A” and incorporated herein by reference, will be added to
UFSA.

        2.      That this Resolution is adopted by the board of UFSA and the Alta Town Council
for the purpose of fulfilling and complying with the requirements of Utah Code Ann. §§ 17B-1-
503 and 17B-1-417(3)(a) to initiate the statutory procedure for adjusting the boundary of the UFSA
to include the Town of Alta.

3.     That the UFSA Board of Trustees and the Alta Town Council shall hold a joint public
hearing on the proposed boundary adjustment no less than 60 days after the adoption of this Joint
Resolution.

        4.      That a notice that this Joint Resolution was adopted and that public hearings are to
be held shall be provided in accordance with the requirements of Utah Code Ann. §§ 17B-1-
417(3)(a)(iii) through -417(3)(c), which notice shall either be published once a week for two
successive weeks in a newspaper of general circulation within both jurisdictions, with the first
publication of the notice to be not later than 14 days after the adoption of this Joint Resolution, or
the notice shall be mailed to each owner of property located within the affected area and to each
registered voter residing within the affected area. No later than 14 days after the adoption of this
Joint Resolution, the notice shall also be published for two weeks on the Utah Public Notice
Website.
                                               -2-
         5.    That the required notice may be given jointly by UFSA and Alta.

        6.      That, after the joint public hearing, the UFSA Board and the Town of Alta may
adopt a joint resolution adjusting the UFSA boundary unless, at or before the public hearings, the
requisite number of written protests to the boundary adjustment have been filed with the UFSA
Board and the Town of Alta as provided by law, and may take other steps necessary to complete
the boundary adjustment.

      7.       That, if the requisite number of protests are filed, the boundary adjustment shall be
abandoned.

       8.     That this Joint Resolution has been placed on the agenda of a UFSA Board of
Trustees meeting and of an Alta Town Council meeting and this action is taken in compliance with
the Utah Open and Public Meetings Act.

        9.     That this Resolution shall take effect immediately when it has been approved by
both the Board of Trustees of UFSA and by the Alta Town Council in accordance with the dates
set forth below.

      Approved and passed by the Board of Trustees of the Unified Fire Service Area and by the
Town of Alta on the dates set forth below.

                                             Unified Fire Service Area

Date:                                        By:
                                                     Chair
ATTEST:



Title:




                                             TOWN OF ALTA



Date:                                        By:
                                                     Mayor


ATTEST:
                          -3-



Piper Lever, Town Clerk
                                        -4-
                                 EXHIBIT “A”
                       (Legal Description of Affected Area)




4811-6591-2884, v. 2
