Alta Town Council

Staff Report



To: Town of Alta Staff, Mayor and Town Council
From: Chris Cawley, Assistant Town Administrator/Emergency Manager
Re: COVID-19 Preparedness and Response in Alta
Date: April 30, 2020
Attachments:


STATE OF UTAH COVID-19 SITUATION, 4/30/2020:

State of Utah confirmed cases: 4495
Salt Lake County cases: 2361
People tested statewide: 105778
Hospitalizations: 383
Fatalities: 45

Please visit the following pages for updated information:

Salt Lake County COVID-19 Dashboard
State of Utah COVID-19 Website Case Counts Page

Governor Gary Herbert issued an executive order announcing that the State of Utah will move
from the “red” or “high risk” phase of the Utah Leads Together 2.0 COVID-19 Response and
Recovery Plan to the “orange” or “moderate risk” phase. The order allows the following
activities to resume: gatherings of 20 or fewer people, dining in at restaurants, and operation of
“personal care facilities” including salons and gyms, provided substantial precautions are taken
in all settings including hand washing and using hand sanitizer, wearing masks, and remaining six
feet away from other individuals whenever possible. The Governor continues to urge all Utahns
to limit non-essential travel and stay at home as much as possible, and to remind Utahns that
the threat of COVID-19 transmission could increase if these practices are not implemented.
Health officials have issued specific rules and guidelines for operation of certain kinds of
businesses.

Salt Lake County Mayor Jenny Wilson announced that Salt Lake County will follow the State of
Utah in moving towards the orange phase of Utah Leads Together 2.0. Summit County, which
has had Utah’s highest case rates, is also following the State of Utah toward reduced
restrictions.
State and local governments throughout the United States continue to take varied approaches
to the COVID-19 pandemic. While many states are moving toward reduced restrictions, some
continue to maintain stronger measures to mitigate transmission of the virus.

TOWN OF ALTA COVID-19 SITUATION, 4/30/2020

The Town of Alta is still not aware that any residents or current Alta business employees have
tested positive for COVID-19.

At its April 8th meeting, the Alta Town Council adopted Resolution 2020-R-5 consenting and
extending Emergency Proclamation NO. 1 OF 2020 in excess of thirty days, which extended the
town’s state of emergency declaration and all emergency proclamations subsequently issued by
Mayor Sondak until May 13th. This means the following restrictions remain in effect in the Town
of Alta:

-restaurants, bars, and lodging facilities including nightly/short-term rentals are closed
-Town of Alta operations are reduced to essential services
-Town of Alta facilities are closed to the general public aside from the Alta Post Office
-visitors to the Town of Alta must travel to Alta in separate vehicles unless passengers reside in
the same household
-gatherings at trailheads and in parking lots is prohibited
-urinating or defecating on public property is prohibited
-individuals travelling to Alta from outside the State of Utah must self-quarantine upon arrival in
Alta for 14 days
-housekeepers are prohibited from entering previously occupied units until those units have
been vacant for 72 hours

Town of Alta operations are relatively stable at this time. Administrative staff continue to work
from home while one administrative staff member works in the town office each weekday.
Recreation visitation to Alta is declining as Alta enters its typical springtime “mud season.” Staff
continues to monitor regional trends in the COVID-19 pandemic and the government response,
including opportunities for Federal and State of Utah assistance to residents, businesses, and
local governments. We remain cognizant of the medium- and long-term nature of the pandemic
and its impacts, including:

-many typical Alta summer events may be cancelled or substantially modified, including
volunteer events, festivals, and weddings
-Utah is moving toward reduced restrictions despite steady, yet not declining, case rates,
meaning that a peak of cases statewide may not have been reached as of today
-health experts foresee a resurgence of COVID-19 concurrent with the onset of the 2020-2021
flu season, which may complicate safe and timely opening of typical winter business operations
in Alta and other tourist destination communities
-all governments project lower revenues in the upcoming fiscal year and the Town of Alta’s
substantial dependence on sales tax revenue to fund basic operations and essential public
services makes our financial outlook relatively tenuous




                                                                                                  2
