   MAYOR                                                                                    TOWN OF ALTA
HARRIS SONDAK                                                                                P.O. BOX 8016
                                                                                              ALTA, UTAH
TOWN COUNCIL                                                                                   84092-8016
MARGARET BOURKE
  CLIFF CURRY
SHERIDAN DAVIS                                                                          TEL (801)363-5105 / 742-3522
 ELISE MORGAN                                                                               FAX (801)742-1006
                                                                                                 TTY 711



                                   Public Comments
                   REMOTE ALTA TOWN COUNCIL MEETING from 5:00-7:00 pm
                                WEDNESDAY, MAY 6, 2020

 If you are interested in providing public comment, you can submit written comment (under
300 words) by email to plever@townofalta.com before 3:00 pm on Tuesday, May 5, 2020 and
       it will be read into the record during the public comment period of the meeting.

                          3 public comments are included in this document

1.
April 29, 2020

Dear Mayor Sondak and Council Members,

We are writing in lieu of attending the May 6th, 2020 Town Council Meeting. Alta Chalets would like to
thank the mayor and council for your efforts in this difficult time. We understand that there have been
many difficult decisions made and commend you for all you have done. Listed below is some
information we would like you to consider when deciding when and how to reopen Alta.

     1.  Vacation Rentals and Hotels are very different in how they operate. Unlike a hotel, our
        properties have independent kitchens, living rooms and bathrooms. There are no shared
        amenities and guests can social distance.
     2. We have very strict housekeeping and maintenance protocols. For example, sheets, towels and
        duvet covers are laundered by a commercial laundry service that washes to OSHA standards for
        hospitals. In addition to what is already in place, we are adding new protocols to address the
        concerns of COVID including a minimum of 72 hours between rentals and protective gear for our
        cleaners and maintenance staff. We will be following all county and state guidelines when made
        available.
     3. The projections in the tourism industry are that people will start to vacation “slowly”.
            a. The studies we have seen, show people will be taking more “staycations” a short
                distance from home.
            b. Vacation rentals will be more popular than hotels because of the ability to social
                distance.
            c. Travelers will want to drive to a destination and not fly.
            d. Safety and hygiene will be high on the list of important factors in making vacation
                decisions.
            e. In addition, it is expected that families will vacation together vs. groups of individuals.
      4. Our goal is to create a safe and healthy environment for our employees, visitors and the
         community. We are spending a significant amount of time listening to a variety of webinars,
         industry experts and medical professionals in order to educate ourselves in how to make this
         happen.
      5. Alta has historically had a “slow” summer season. However, over the past few years, there has
         been an increase in rentals to those wanting a staycation close to home and away from the
         heat. Alta is not a vacation destination in the summer as it is in the wintertime. We do not
         attract out of state visitors, but rather locals wanting to get out of the city.

Currently, there are a lot of people from the SL Valley visiting Alta daily. As we move into summer, the
recreational opportunities available lend themselves to social distancing. We are not asking that you
increase visitation to Alta, but rather allow for vacation rentals to operate under certain guidelines. We
ask that you take all of this into consideration when deciding when to allow businesses to reopen at Alta
and adjust policy to be more consistent with the county.

Thank you for your consideration,

Adrienne Ruderman and Dan Ketner

2.
From: Frank Perkins <fperkins@xmission.com>
Sent: Tuesday, May 5, 2020 11:21 AM
To: Jen Clancy <jclancy@townofalta.com>
Cc: 'Frank Perkins' <fperkins@xmission.com>
Subject: FW: Town of Alta
To:             Alta Town Council & Mayor Sondak

Re;             Town Council Meeting May 6, 2020

Discussion - Possible Extension of Rental Restrictions

It is my understanding that the Town of Alta is considering extending the rental restriction which were put
in place several weeks. I can only imagine how difficult it must be to figure out how to move forward in
dealing with a problem none of us have experienced before. I have a few thoughts that I would like to
share with you regarding renting the properties that we manage.

Canyon Services has worked hard over the past five years to build a summer business which was
nonexistent in my early days in the canyon. We have been able to increase business each year. We
found that most our Summer business comes from in state customers with Salt Lake City being the main
source.

I think the rental units that Canyon Services manages should be looked at differentlt than your standard
hotel rooms. Each condominium has a separate entrance as well as garage. There is no common area
for people to congregate in any of the projects. The units are totally self-contained.

Our housekeeping staff is totally up to date with all of the recommendations, federal and state, in dealing
with the Covid 19 virus. We are prepared to enforce the 72 hour downtime for a unit after the departure
of a guest. We have added a final disinfectant spray application for an entire condominium before the
arrival or a guest.

We feel that the experience we offer is unique for this problematic time. Families can drive up the canyon
and stay in one of our condominiums and enjoy the outdoors while totally complying with all the social
distancing recommendations, their only personal interaction being with their own family.



Alta Town Council: Public Comment for May 6, 2020 Meeting                                         Page 2 of 4
When I come to my office in Alta these days I make a point of driving up by Alta lifts before leaving for the
day to see all of the back country skiers still enjoying Alta while being in a safe place.

I appreciate your consideration. Please feel free to contact me if I can help in any way with your decision.

Thank you all for your service to Alta.

Regards,

Frank Perkins
Canyon Services
801-580-2942 Cell

3.
From: John Byrne <johnbyrne333@cs.com>
To: plever@townofalta.com <plever@townofalta.com>
Cc: CCawley@townofalta.com <CCawley@townofalta.com>
Sent: Tue, May 5, 2020 1:33 pm
Subject: Emergency order #4 letter of concern

Hello Piper,

Below please find a letter of concern regarding emergency order #4 from the concerned members of our
community listed below.

Hopefully this can be included in The Town Council meeting packages?

Dear Councilmember,

We are writing to you today to express our concern over the proposed extension of emergency order #4.

As a group we stand opposed to the extension of emergency order #4. For your convince I have attached
what I believe to be the most relevant documents to l regarding the proposed renewal of emergency order
#4, which is up for adoption at this week's TOA Council meeting, The town staff report on this issue, the
most recent Salt Lake County Public Health order dated 4/17/20, as well as the draft extension itself.

I would suggest starting with the staff memo.
While staff acknowledges that Governor Herbert has recently downgraded the risk level from red to
orange and that County Mayor Jenny Wilson has followed suit downgrading the hazard level, staff goes
on to suggest that

" while many states are now moving toward reduced restrictions, some continue to maintain stronger
measures to mitigate the transmission of the virus"

While this may be technically correct, can you name even one place that is sticking to the stronger
measures that have yet to have a single case of the virus as is the case in Alta? Even one place where
there have been no confirmed cases and they are sticking to the measures implemented in late Feb and
March? I am aware of no such place.

Order #4 was written back in March when County Health order number 2020-03 was in effect and was at
least somewhat based on this county order. The County Health Department has revised this order twice
since, including the now current order 2020-05 dated 4/17/20. These revisions have sought to clarify the
definitions of permitted activities during self-quarantine, which include solo or socially distant outdoor
activity, and the use of "touchless delivery services" Our order #4 forbids the use of delivery service and
forbids any outdoor activity including for the purpose of the exercise for second homeowners who come
to Alta. It has become generally accepted nationwide that it's better and safer to use contactless delivery


Alta Town Council: Public Comment for May 6, 2020 Meeting                                          Page 3 of 4
services than not, and it has become widely accepted that an opportunity to solo recreate each day is not
only important it should be considered an essential activity during periods of quarantine. Again our order
#4 expressly prohibits such outdoor time, and directly conflicts with both common sense and the recently
updated County Health order. These definitions are presented in sections 6 and 8 of the County Health
order 2020-05. Our emergency order #4 could be reworked so as to establish more reasonable rules,
rules that are in line with the revised county, and with current state guidelines, by redrafting section 1 of
TOA order #4. Personally I would simply not renew order #4, let expire on May 8 as is the current
schedule.

The other big issue we have with order #4 is Section 2. where the order singles out Non-Resident Home
Owners for compliance with the unique set of unreasonable rules contained in order #4 Section 1. This
section 2, which is largely based in early pandemic fear fails to account for the road being open. Your
subjecting non-resident homeowners to a dramatically stricter set of rules than the general public who are
driving up The Canyon from anywhere in the country is being subjected to. This is without a doubt
discriminatory, and the victims of said discrimination are property owners in Alta for goodness sake. Not
only do we question the town's legal right to make such a discriminatory order, but it's also bad
governance. It's never ok to discriminate against any singled out-group. Never. While this element of rule
#4 could also be addressed by rewriting or eliminating section 2, my inclination would be not to take the
time and manpower to effect such edits and I would again simply allow order #4 to expire, and renew only
orders #1-3.

The CV19 virus has brought forth a huge amount of issues and it did not come with a road map. The
Council used it's best judgment based on the facts and concerns at the time in creating these orders. In
my opinion emergency orders #1-3 were reasonable and more or less appropriate. Order #4 was poorly
conceived, poorly drafted, discriminatory, and inappropriate. So long as the road remains open #4 cannot
be applied in an equitable manner, and it should be allowed to expire.

Here in Alta, we are all in this together, and we all need to live by the same set of rules.



Sincerely,



John Byrne
Paul Moxley
Dave Richards
Paul Gongaware
Evan Singer/ Susan Sosin

(please find the 3 attachments submitted with this comment in the following pages)




Alta Town Council: Public Comment for May 6, 2020 Meeting                                          Page 4 of 4
______________________________________________________________________________

                      IN AND FOR SALT LAKE COUNTY, STATE OF UTAH

                                                   :
  In the matter of:                                : PUBLIC HEALTH ORDER
                                                   :
  COVID-19 Pandemic                                : Order No.: 2020-05
                                                   :
                                                   : Date: April 17, 2020
                                                   :
                                                   :
                                                   :
                                                   :
                                                   :
                                                   :
                                                   :
                                                   :

        On January 29, 2020, the Utah Department of Health (“UDOH”) activated a Department
Operations Center to respond to the evolving COVID-19 global pandemic, recognizing COVID-
19 as a threat to the health and safety of the residents of the State of Utah (“Utah”).
        On March 6, 2020, Salt Lake County Mayor Jennifer Wilson recognized the imminent
threat COVID-19 poses to Salt Lake County and declared a State of Emergency. On March 13,
2020, the County closed many of its public facilities, including senior centers, fitness facilities,
recreation facilities, event centers, and libraries. That same day, Utah Governor Gary R. Herbert
dismissed all Utah public schools for two weeks to combat the spread of COVID-19, which
dismissal has been extended through the end of the 2019-2020 school year.
        On March 16, 2020, Mayor Wilson issued a Proclamation Declaring a State of
Emergency and Invoking Emergency Powers in Salt Lake County Due to a Public Health
Emergency, and Salt Lake County issued Public Health Order No. 2020-1, curtailing operations
at restaurants, bars and taverns, announcing social distancing protocols for businesses and other
establishments, and prohibiting social gatherings larger than fifty (50) persons. Three days later,
on March 19, 2020, the County issued Public Health Order 2020-2, further restricting non-family
gatherings to no more than ten (10) persons. Through a vote by the Salt Lake County Council,
the Emergency Declaration has been extended to Monday, July 6, 2020.
       On March 27, 2020, Governor Gary Herbert issued a statewide directive encouraging all
Utah citizens to stay safe by staying home and seeking to make clear what all individuals and
businesses should do to slow the spread of COVID-19 in the State and local communities. Salt
Lake County, through its elected Mayor and the Executive Director of its Health Department,
issued Public Health Orders 2020-3 and -4 similarly mandating, that to the greatest extent
possible, Salt Lake County residents stay home and stay safe.

                                            Page 1 of 16
        Utah Code §26A-1-106(2) provides that “[r]egulations or standards relating to public
health or environmental health services adopted or established by a local health department may
not be less restrictive than [State Department of Health orders].”
        Utah Code §26A-1-114(1) empowers a local health department to “close theatres,
schools, and other public places and prohibit gatherings of people when necessary to protect the
public health”, and further empowers the local health department to “exercise physical control
over property and over individuals as the local health department finds necessary for the
protection of the public health”, and to do so through the issuance of “notices and orders.” Utah
Code §26A-1-114(1)(e), (b), and (k).
       COVID-19 is a contagion that spreads from person to person. Salt Lake County’s
Executive Health Director recognizes the widespread community transmission already occurring
among the general public and the need for Salt Lake County and the public to continue to work
cooperatively and proactively to slow the spread of COVID-19 and to address the myriad
challenges that may arise due to COVID-19.
        As of April 17, 2020, there are 2,188,194 confirmed cases of COVID-19 worldwide with
over 672,000 of those cases in the United States, including more than 2,680 in Utah, with 1,377
cases in Salt Lake County. To slow the spread of COVID-19 in Salt Lake County, protect the
health of residents, and avoid overwhelming local and regional health systems, continued
implementation of health safety measures is necessary.
        Under current conditions, Salt Lake County and the medical systems located within the
County continue to be threatened by collapse due to the forecast of patients ࡳ from throughout
the state ࡳ who will require specialized medical equipment and staffing support, including
ventilators to survive and recover from COVID-19. Data models forecast the capacity of Salt
Lake County’s healthcare systems will be overwhelmed in May 2020, if social distancing
measures are not continued in Salt Lake County, as elsewhere. Once the number of COVID-19
related inpatients nears and/or passes that threshold, the capabilities of the medical system’s
capability to provide for residents of Salt Lake County, and those who may travel here for
medical care, will further deteriorate.
        The Executive Director finds COVID-19 poses a continuing and immediate threat to the
public health of Salt County residents and visitors which necessitates the modification of Public
Health Orders 2020-3 and -4.
        This is a critical moment in Salt Lake County and the State of Utah, and all County
residents, businesses, community organizations, and government must do their respective parts to
decrease all non-essential travel, business, and social interactions. Reducing person-to-person
interaction will slow the transmission of COVID-19, enhance and improve the ability of our
healthcare system to meet this mounting challenge, restore consumer confidence, and reduce the
economic impact of this global healthcare crisis.




                                          Page 2 of 16
THEREFORE, PURSUANT TO UTAH CODE §26A-1-114 AND SALT LAKE COUNTY
CODE OF ORDINANCES 2.86.050(E), BE IT HEREBY ORDERED BY MAYOR
JENNIFER WILSON AND GARY EDWARDS, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR OF THE
SALT LAKE COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT, AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1. Intent. The intent of this Public Health Order is to ensure the maximum number of
people engage in social distancing, while enabling essential services to continue, and to slow the
spread of COVID-19 to the greatest extent possible. These measures are designed to hasten the
end of this pandemic as soon as possible, and to protect the well-being of Salt Lake County
residents by returning to the course of business and everyday life as soon as safe and practicable.
When people need to leave their homes or places of residence, whether to perform an Essential
Function or engage in an Essential Activity necessary for continuity of social and commercial
life, they must at all times, and to the greatest extent possible, comply with social distancing
requirements. All provisions of this Order must be interpreted in the manner that effectuates this
intent.
Section 2. This Public Order will remain in effect until 11:59 p.m., on Friday, May 1, 2020,
unless extended, rescinded, superseded, or amended in writing, and shall be re-evaluated as
warranted.
To the extent individuals use or share outdoor spaces other than their home or residence, they
must at all times and as reasonably possible maintain social distancing of at least six (6) feet
from any other person, except that family members living in a single household do not need to
maintain social distancing while in their home. Individuals are encouraged to wear a mask in all
places of public accommodation, including retail establishments and grocery stores, and
whenever social distancing is not possible.
Displaced persons. Unsheltered individuals experiencing homelessness are strongly urged to
obtain shelter and must always practice appropriate social distancing.
Persons in unsafe environments. Individuals whose homes or residences are unsafe or become
unsafe, such as victims of domestic violence or persons for whom the safety, sanitation or
essential operation of their home or residence cannot be maintained, are permitted and urged to
leave their homes to stay at a safe, alternative location.
High-risk populations. Individuals at high risk of severe illness from COVID-19 are urged to
stay in their residences to the greatest extent possible except as necessary to seek medical care
and should avoid accepting visitors except for healthcare providers. People who are sick must
stay in their residences to the greatest extent possible except as necessary to seek medical care.
For purposes of this Order, homes or residences include hotels, motels, shared rental units,
dormitories, shelters, and similar facilities where a person may presently reside.
Access to long-term care facilities shall be governed by the guidance issued by the Centers for
Medicare and Medicaid Services, Center for Clinical Standards and Quality.
Section 3. All businesses and operations must practice social distancing. All businesses
shall, to the greatest extent possible, use technology to avoid meeting in person, including virtual
                                           Page 3 of 16
meetings, teleconference, and working remotely. No business may engage in door-to-door
solicitation, regardless of its purpose or status as an essential business or operation, except that
food and other home delivery services may continue by this Order.
Essential businesses and operations are encouraged to remain open, and excluding those
businesses ordered closed by Section 5, below, all businesses shall comply with appropriate
social distancing requirements to the greatest extent possible. For purposes of this Order the
term social distancing includes maintaining a distance of at least six feet from other individuals;
ensuring employees and customers exhibiting symptoms of COVID-19 are excluded from the
workplace; washing hands with soap and water for at least twenty seconds as frequently as
possible or using hand sanitizer; covering coughs and sneezes; no longer shaking hands; and to
the greatest extent possible:
       a.      Allowing as many employees as possible to work from home by implementing
       policies for teleworking and video conferencing.
       b.      Implementing protections for elderly employees and other vulnerable employees
       who may be at higher risk of suffering extreme illness from COVID-19, including
       prioritizing teleworking and video conferencing.
       c.     Identifying employees who present symptoms of illness consistent with COVID-
       19 and sending them home immediately.
       d.     Reinforcing key messages to all employees, including staying home when sick,
       using appropriate cough and sneezing etiquette, and practicing appropriate handwashing.
       e.     Performing frequent and enhanced environmental cleaning of commonly touched
       surfaces, such as workstations, countertops, railings, door handles, and doorknobs.
       f.     For businesses that serve the public, designating with signage, tape, or other
       means six-foot spacing to ensure employees and members of the public maintain
       appropriate social distancing, including but not limited to when customers are standing in
       line.
       g.    For businesses that must accept cash, checks, or credit cards using cleansing
       measures between transactions, including any best practices issued by the Health
       Department. Cash transactions are discouraged, but not prohibited.
       h.     Having hand sanitizer and/or sanitizing products readily available for employees
       and customers.
       i.      Implementing separate hours of operation for elderly and vulnerable customers;
       and
       j.     Posting online or by other means whether a facility is open for business and/or
       how to contact a facility or obtain services by remote means.
All businesses must follow the general guidelines for business outlined at
https://slco.org/health/COVID-19/business/,and all businesses must provide for certain,
                                          Page 4 of 16
minimum basic operations, which include providing security, necessary plant, equipment or
inventory maintenance, and payroll and employee benefits processing, provided employees
comply with social distancing requirements to the greatest extent possible.

Section 4. Prohibited activities and gatherings. All public and private gatherings of any
number of people that are not part of a single household or living unit are prohibited, except for
the limited purposes permitted by this Order. Nothing in this Order shall prohibit the gathering
of members of a single household or living unit. Landlords or rental property managers must
avoid entering leased residential premises unless to provide emergency maintenance.
Section 5. Closures. The following facilities and places shall remain closed to slow the spread
of COVID-19:
       a.      Places of public amusement and activity. Whether indoors or outdoors,
       including but not limited to amusement parks, carnivals, water parks, licensed public and
       private swimming pools, splash pads, aquariums, zoos, aviaries, museums, arcades, fairs,
       children’s play centers, playgrounds, bowling alleys, movie and other theaters, concert
       and music halls or venues, recreation centers, social clubs, and gyms and fitness centers.

       b.      Salons and spas. This includes, but is not limited to, hair salons, barber shops,
       nails salons, day spas, electrolysis providers, waxing salons, eyebrow threading shops,
       tattoo parlors, body art establishments, massage establishments, and tanning facilities.

Section 6. Restricted food service activities. All food service, restaurants, self-serve buffets,
salad bars, unpackaged self-serve food services, bars, taverns, nightclubs, private liquor clubs,
and saloons in Salt Lake County shall remain closed to members, guests, patrons, customers,
and the general public as previously required by prior Orders. Notwithstanding, food service
may operate on a limited basis subject to the following:

           x       Dine-in food service, whether inside or outside the establishment is
                   prohibited.

           x       Take-out food service is permitted if proper social distancing protocols are
                   followed. Proper social distancing protocols include maintaining a six-foot
                   separation between people and wearing a face covering. A food service
                   establishment may not admit a member, guest, patron, or customer inside the
                   food service establishment except to order and pick up food for take-out and
                   must adhere to the social distancing requirements of prior Orders and as set
                   out in Section 3, above.

           x       Drive-through food service is permitted.

           x       Where possible, online (e.g. Venmo, Squarecash, Google Pay, Apple Pay) and
                   telephonic credit card transactions are strongly encouraged. Cash payments
                   are strongly discouraged.

                                           Page 5 of 16
           x       An employee who handles cash or a credit card shall use cleansing measures
                   between each transaction, including any best practices issued by the Health
                   Department. An employee who handles cash or a credit card may not
                   participate in food preparation, handling, or delivery.

           x       A hotel may not serve a complimentary meal other than a prepackaged, take-
                   out meal that is eaten in an area other than a common area of the hotel.

           x       Food delivery services including third party services such as Uber Eats, Door
                   Dash, etc., are required to observe “no contact delivery” which means these
                   services cannot have person to person contact. All employees of such services
                   shall not engage in any delivery services if they present any symptoms of
                   illness.

           x       Management shall and must ensure, daily and at the beginning of each shift,
                   that no employee who presents symptoms of illness consistent with COVID-
                   19 is permitted to work.

           x       This Order does not restrict convenience stores from selling a hot food item or
                   a self-serve drink. A convenience store that chooses to sell a hot food item or
                   a self-serve drink shall operate according to the guidelines outlined at
                   https://slco.org/health/COVID-19/business/.
Due to the evolving situation with the potential spread of the COVID-19 virus, violations of
these operational restrictions shall result in the immediate closure of individual businesses and
establishments to all business activity.
Section 7. Permitted Travel. All forms of travel not deemed as essential are discouraged.
Individuals riding public transit must comply with social distancing to the greatest extent
possible, and public transit systems must, in turn, implement appropriate social distancing
policies to the greatest extent possible. This Order allows for travel into or out of Salt Lake
County as necessary to maintain essential businesses and operations and/or to maintain minimum
basic operations.
Section 8. Leaving home for Essential Functions or Activities is permitted. For purposes of
this Order, individuals are discouraged from leaving their residences except to engage in the
following Essentials Functions or Activities and must ensure appropriate social distancing of six
feet or more from others not in their household:
       a.      For health and safety. To engage in activities or perform tasks essential to their
       health and safety, or to the health and safety of their family or household members,
       including pets, such as, by way of example only and without limitation, obtaining
       medical supplies or medication, seeking emergency services, or visiting a health care or
       behavior health care professional. Individuals should rely on telehealth options
       whenever feasible.



                                           Page 6 of 16
       b.     For necessary supplies and services. To obtain necessary services or supplies
       for themselves and their family or household members or persons who are unable to or
       who should not leave their home, or to deliver those services or supplies to others, such
       as and without limitation, groceries and food, household consumer products, automobile
       supplies, and products necessary to maintain the safety, sanitation, and essential
       operation of residences.

       c.      For outdoor activity. To engage in outdoor activity, including visiting public
       parks, provided individuals comply with social distancing requirements and any
       applicable orders from the municipality where the park is located. Such activities
       include, by way of example and without limitation, walking, biking, hiking, running, or
       fishing. All children’s playgrounds, including pavilions, must remain closed. Team
       sports, including pick-up games, continue to be prohibited. Recreation must be limited
       to non-contact activities, and individuals are prohibited from engaging in recreation
       where it is not possible to maintain appropriate social distancing of six feet or more
       between individuals, with the exception of individuals who reside in the same
       household. Individuals must not congregate at trailheads or other recreational spots, and
       Salt Lake County residents are discouraged from any outdoor recreation that poses an
       enhanced risk of injury or that could otherwise stress the ability of local first responders
       to address the COVID-19 emergency.

       d.      For certain types of work. To perform work at essential businesses or
       operations or to otherwise carry out activities specifically permitted in this Public Health
       Order, including maintaining minimum basic operations and obtaining supplies needed
       to work from home.

       e.      To provide care for others. To provide necessary care for a family member,
       friend or pet in another household, and to transport family members, friends, or pets as
       allowed in this Order, including transporting children pursuant to an existing parent time
       schedule or for other visitation pertaining to a child in need of protective services.

Section 9. Leaving home for Essential Travel is permitted. Individuals may leave their
homes or place of residence to engage in Essential Travel. Individuals engaged in Essential
Travel must comply with social distancing requirements to the greatest extent possible. For
purposes of this Order, Essential Travel includes:

           x      Travel related to the provision of or access to essential activities, special
                  situations, to provide work for or to perform essential governmental
                  functions, essential infrastructure, essential businesses and operations, or
                  minimum basic operations. A list of such businesses, operations, services
                  and functions is set out in Addendum A, attached hereto.

           x      Travel to care for elderly, minors, dependents, persons with disabilities, or
                  other vulnerable persons.


                                           Page 7 of 16
           x       Travel to or from educational institutions for purposes of receiving materials
                   for distance learning, for receiving meals, or any other related services.

           x       Travel to return to a place of residence.

           x       Travel required by law enforcement or court order, including the ability of
                   parents or guardians to transport children pursuant to a custody agreement.

Section 10. Exceptions for essential operations, functions, activities or services. Certain
individuals must continue to work outside their residences to provide goods and services critical
to our response to the COVID-19 epidemic.

For purposes of this Order, individuals may leave their homes or place of residences to work
for, provide work to, or to obtain necessary, essential services in the following areas: Healthcare
and Public Health Operations; Human Services; Critical Infrastructure; and Governmental
Functions delineated in the list attached hereto as Addendum A, and as set forth in the U.S.
Department of Homeland Security, Cybersecurity & Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA),
Guidance on the Essential Critical Infrastructure Workforce: Ensuring Community and
National Resilience in COVID-19 Response, updated April 17, 2020, and any subsequent
versions of this Memorandum (“CISA Guidance”), and provide work for and engage with
essential businesses and operations also delineated in Addendum A.

All entities described in this section shall meet social distancing requirements between all
individuals on the premises to the greatest extent possible, as required by Section 3, above.
Essential businesses and operations shall, to the greatest extent possible, use technology to
avoid meeting in person, including virtual meetings, teleconference, and working remotely (i.e.,
work from home).

Section 11. Enforcement. The purpose of this Order is to protect individuals’ health, not to
hold them criminally liable. An initial violation of this Order is punishable as a Class B
Misdemeanor, and subsequent violations are punishable as Class A Misdemeanors. Each
violation constitutes a separate offense as allowed by Utah law. Prosecutors are encouraged to
exercise discretion in making any charging decisions due to a violation of this Order.

This Public Health Order restates and renews all prior Public Health Orders to the extent they are
not inconsistent with this Order and becomes effective immediately. The Order will remain in
effect until 11:59 p.m., on Friday, May 1, 2020, or until the Order is extended, rescinded,
superseded, or amended in writing, and shall be re-evaluated as warranted.




                                           Page 8 of 16
ADDENDUM A




 Page 10 of 16
ADDENDUM A

Essential Healthcare and Public Health Operations. For purposes of this Public Health Order
Healthcare and Public Health Operations shall be broadly construed to avoid impediments to the
delivery of healthcare, broadly defined.

Healthcare and Public Health Operations do not include fitness centers, gyms, spas, salons,
barber shops, tattoo parlors, and similar facilities.

This category is limited to:

           x       Healthcare and public health workers listed in the U.S. Department of
                   Homeland Security, Cybersecurity & Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA),
                   Guidance on the Essential Critical Infrastructure Workforce: Ensuring
                   Community and National Resilience in COVID-19 Response, updated April
                   17, and any subsequent versions of this Guidance.

           x       Providers of, and workers supporting, reproductive health care, childbirth
                   services, mental health care, and substance use treatment.

           x       Workers supporting manufacturers, technicians, logistics and warehouse
                   operators, and distributors of personal care, hygiene, and healthcare products.

           x       Workers providing home care and human services workers from government
                   or non-profit providers who deliver food, prescriptions, case management
                   services, mental health and substance abuse therapy, or who otherwise care
                   for clients.

           x       Workers providing or supporting home-based care for adults, seniors, and
                   children, including but not limited to people with disabilities, including
                   physical disabilities, developmental disabilities, intellectual disabilities,
                   substance use disorders, or mental illness. This includes workers who must
                   travel to a person’s home to provide care or other in-home services including
                   meal delivery and one-on-one interpreting services. This also includes
                   personal care attendants, paid employees of government and non-profit
                   providers, or volunteers representing government and non-profit providers.

           x       Persons providing veterinary care or other healthcare services to animals.

Cafeterias and food service operations located in a health care facility may remain open only for
staff and authorized visitors, except that self-service operations or salad bars, beverage stations,
buffets, and the self-dispensing of unpackaged food or beverages are prohibited. Customers and
staff shall comply with social distancing requirements, including in all seating areas and lines.



                                           Page 11 of 16
Essential Human Services. For purposes of this Public Health Order, individuals may access
and provide essential human services.

This category includes community-based and government essential functions listed in the
CISA Guidance, in addition to workers who support the following functions and services:

           x      Housing, shelter, and homelessness-prevention staff of agencies and
                  organizations responsible for ensuring safe and stable housing, including
                  workers from state, County, and local agencies and organizations with
                  responsibility for ensuring safe and stable housing; shelter outreach or drop-
                  in center programs; financing affordable housing; and administering rent
                  subsidies, homeless interventions, operating support, and similar support.
                  This also includes workers necessary to provide repairs, maintenance, and
                  operations support to residential dwellings.

           x      Long-term care and assisted living facilities, residential settings and shelters
                  for adults, seniors, youth, victims of domestic abuse, people with
                  disabilities, people with substance use disorders, or mental illness;
                  transitional facilities; home-based settings to provide services to individuals
                  with physical, intellectual, or developmental disabilities, seniors, adults, or
                  youth; adult day care, adult day services, and supportive home care;
                  businesses that provide food, shelter, social services, or other necessities of
                  life for economically disadvantaged and unsheltered individuals, individuals
                  with physical, intellectual, or developmental disabilities, or otherwise needy
                  individuals, including but not limited to all senior services.

Essential Infrastructure. For purposes of this Public Health, individuals may provide any
services or perform any work necessary to offer, provide, operate, maintain, and repair Essential
Infrastructure.

           x      Essential Infrastructure includes, but is not limited to, public works
                  construction, residential and commercial construction, airport operations,
                  water, sewer, gas, electrical, oil refining, roads and highways, public
                  transportation, solid waste collection and removal, internet, and
                  telecommunications systems (including the provision of essential global,
                  national, and local infrastructure for computing services, business
                  infrastructure, communications, and web-based services), provided that they
                  carry out those services or that work in compliance with appropriate social
                  distancing to the extent possible. Essential Infrastructure shall be construed
                  broadly to avoid any impacts to essential infrastructure.




                                          Page 12 of 16
Essential Governmental Functions. For purposes of this Public Health Order, individuals may
provide services necessary to provide, operate, or maintain essential governmental functions.

           x       Essential Governmental Functions means all services provided by the
                   Federal, State, County or local governments needed to ensure the continuing
                   operation of the government body and provide and support the health, safety,
                   and welfare of the public. Each government body shall determine its
                   Essential Government Function, if any, and identify employees and
                   contractors necessary to the performance of those functions. For purposes of
                   Order 2020-3, all paid or volunteer first responders including law
                   enforcement, EMS, and firefighters; first responder training academies;
                   building inspectors; emergency management personnel; emergency
                   dispatchers; court personnel; corrections personnel; hazardous materials
                   responders; child protection and child welfare personnel; housing and shelter
                   personnel; election support services and election administration workers; and
                   workers performing all other governmental functions which are necessary to
                   ensure the health, safety, and welfare of the public, to preserve the essential
                   elements of the financial system of government, and to continue priority
                   services as determined by a Federal, State, County or local government.

Nothing in this Addendum nor Public Health Order limits the ability or authority of the Utah
Supreme Court to use its constitutional supervisory authority over lower courts to limit or adjust
court functions in response to the Public Health Emergency.

Neither this Addendum nor Public Health Order applies to the United States Government, nor
limits the ability or authority of federal employees and contractors, civilian and military, to
travel sporadically to their workplaces to serve the public interest or to perform their military or
law enforcement duties. No one with a PIV or CAC card, a law enforcement badge or a federal
employee identification card or credential will be prohibited from such work-related travel. This
includes those working for the federal judiciary, including, among others, federal judges and
their staff, court personnel, and employees of the U.S. Bureau of Prisons and U.S. Probation.

Essential Businesses and Operations. For the purposes of this Order Essential Businesses and
Operations means Healthcare and Public Health Operations, Human Services Operations,
Essential Infrastructure, and Essential Governmental Functions, and the following:

       a.     CISA List. Any business or worker identified in the CISA Guidance, including
       mining and processing operations and supplier/vendor industries essential to such
       mining and processing operations

       b.       Stores that sell groceries and medicine. Grocery stores, pharmacies, food
       banks and food pantries, convenience stores, and other establishments engaged in the
       retail sale of groceries, pet supplies, and other household consumer products, including
       cleaning and personal care products, except that no such establishment may provide
       samples or testers. Such establishments shall close all seating intended for consuming

                                           Page 13 of 16
food, prohibit customers from self-dispensing all unpackaged food, and abide by social
distancing requirements.

c.      Food and beverage production, transport, and agriculture. Food and
beverage manufacturing, production, processing, transportation, and cultivation;
farming, livestock, fishing, baking, and other production agriculture, including
cultivation, marketing, production, and distribution of animals and goods for
consumption; businesses that provide food, shelter, and other necessities of life for
animals, including animal shelters, boarding, rescues, kennels, and adopting facilities;
farm and agriculture equipment, supplies, and repair services.

d.      Childcare settings. All childcare centers and providers shall abide by the
emergency conditions for childcare providers established by the Utah Department of
Health.
https://health.utah.gov/licensing/forms/All/Emergency%20Conditions%20for%20Child
%20Care%20Providers%20COVID-19.pdf

e.      Organizations that provide charitable and social services. Businesses and
religious and secular nonprofit organizations, including prevocational group-supportive
employment, food banks and food pantries, when providing food, shelter, and social
services, and other necessities of life for economically disadvantaged or otherwise needy
individuals, individuals who need assistance as a result of this public health emergency,
and people with disabilities.

f.     Weddings and funerals. Religious facilities, entities, and groups that gather for
weddings subject to the limitation that any gathering shall include no more than 10
people in a room or confined space and that individuals shall adhere to social distancing
requirements as much as possible. Funeral services are subject to the same limitations
as weddings, except that outdoor graveside services may be attended by more
individuals, so long as those individuals adhere to social distancing requirements.

g.      Funeral establishments. Funeral establishments, mortuary, cremation, burial,
cemetery, and related services, subject to restrictions on mass gathering and appropriate
social distancing.

h.       Religious entities. Religious worship, entities and organizations, subject to the
restriction that religious worship and/or services be conducted by electronic means, with
no parishioners or members physically present. Individuals able to participate in
religious worship and/or services conducted by electronic means shall be limited to
leaders, instructors, interpreters, and those persons necessary to the electronic recording
or production of the service. All such persons shall adhere to appropriate social
distancing requirements.

i.     Media. Newspapers, television, radio, and other media services.


                                   Page 14 of 16
j.      Gas stations and businesses needed for transportation. Gas stations; auto and
motorcycle supply, repair and sales; boat supply, repair, and sales; and bicycle supply,
repair, and sales.

k.      Financial institutions and services. Banks, credit unions, and other depository
or lending institutions; currency exchanges, consumer lenders and pawn brokers;
licensed financial service providers; insurance services; personnel necessary to perform
essential functions at broker dealers and investment advisor offices.

l.      Hardware and supplies stores. Hardware stores and businesses that sell
electrical, plumbing, heating, and construction material.

m.      Critical trades. Building and Construction Tradesmen and Tradeswomen, and
other trades including but not limited to plumbers, electricians, carpenters, laborers,
sheet metal, iron workers, masonry, pipe trades, fabricators, finishers, exterminators,
pesticide application, cleaning and janitorial staff for commercial and governmental
properties, security staff, operating engineers, HVAC, painting, moving and relocation
services, forestry and arborists, and other service providers who provide services that are
necessary to maintaining the safety, sanitation, and essential operation of residences,
Essential Activities, Essential Governmental Functions, and Essential Businesses and
Operations.

n.      Mail, post, shipping, logistics, delivery, and pick-up services. Post offices and
other businesses that provide shipping and delivery services, and businesses that ship or
deliver groceries, food, beverages, goods or services to end users or through commercial
channels.

o.      Laundry services. Laundromats, dry cleaners, industrial laundry services, and
laundry service providers. Laundromats must ensure that customers or patrons observe
the social distancing requirements to the greatest extent possible.

p.     Supplies to work from home. Businesses that sell, manufacture, or supply
products needed for people to work from home.

q.      Supplies for Essential Businesses and Operations and Essential
Governmental Functions. Businesses that sell, manufacture, or supply other Essential
Businesses and Operations and Essential Governmental Functions (including businesses
that provide products and services to the United States Government in support of
national security) with the support or supplies necessary to operate, including
computers; audio and video electronics; household appliances; IT and
telecommunication equipment; hardware; paint; flat glass; electrical, plumbing, and
heating materials; construction materials and equipment; sanitary equipment; personal
hygiene products; food, food additives, ingredients, and components; medical and
orthopedic equipment; optics and photography equipment; diagnostic; food and
beverages; chemicals; paper and paper products; soaps and detergents.

                                   Page 15 of 16
r.     Transportation. Airlines, taxis, transportation network providers (such as Uber
and Lyft), vehicle rental services, paratransit, and other private, public, and commercial
transportation and logistics providers necessary for Essential Activities and other
purposes expressly authorized by this Order.

s.       Home-based care and services. Home-based care for seniors, adults, children,
and/ or people with disabilities, substance use disorders, and/ or mental illness, including
caregivers or nannies who may travel to the child's home to provide care, in-home meal
delivery, and other in-home services, with the exception of non-therapeutic massage and
pet-sitting services. Dog or other pet-walking services are permitted, so long as the
exchange of the pet takes place outside of the home or residence.

t.      Professional services. Professional services, such as legal or accounting
services, insurance services, real estate services (including appraisal, home inspection,
and title services), and veterinary services. These services shall, to the greatest extent
possible, use technology to avoid meeting in person, including virtual meetings,
teleconference, and remote work (i.e., work from home). When showing homes to
prospective clients, real estate agents must refrain from travelling in the same vehicle as
a client/prospective home buyer, and real estate professionals shall further adhere to the
tools provided by the National Association of Realtors. https://www.nar.realtor/right-
tools-right-now

u.     Labor and employee organizations. Essential activities include the
administration of health and welfare funds and checking on the well-being and safety of
members providing services in Essential Business and Operations, provided those
checks are done by telephone or remotely where possible.

v.      Hotels and motels. Hotels and motels, except that such establishments shall
comply with the restrictions on Restaurants, Taverns and Bars, close swimming pools,
hot tubs, and exercise facilities, including spas, saunas and steam rooms, and prohibit
guests from congregating in lobbies or other common areas, including providing
adequate space to adhere to social distancing requirements while queuing for front desk
services.

w.       Higher educational institutions. Higher educational institutions, for purposes of
facilitating distance learning, performing critical research, or performing essential
functions as determined by the institution.




                                   Page 16 of 16
                                   TOWN OF ALTA

                              RESOLUTION NO. 2020-R-8

    A RESOLUTION BY THE ALTA TOWN COUNCIL CONSENTING AND
        EXTENDING EMERGENCY PROCLAMATION NO.1 OF 2020

       WHEREAS, On March 14, 2020, pursuant to his authority from Utah Code
Sections 53-2a-205, 53-2a-208(1) and 53-2a-209(1), the Mayor the Town of Alta
declared a local emergency due to the outbreak of COVID-19;
        WHEREAS, On March 18, 2020, pursuant to his authority from Utah Code
Sections 53-2a-205, 53-2a-208(1) and 53-2a-209(1), the Mayor issued Proclamation No.
2, an order prohibiting groups of more than 10 people, closing restaurants, bars, taverns,
lodges, and nightly rental properties, implementing social distancing protocols for
businesses and reducing Municipal Services to essential services to address the local
emergency related to the spread of COVID-19;
        WHEREAS, On March 29, 2020, pursuant to his authority from Utah Code
Sections 53-2a-205, 53-2a-208(1) and 53-2a-209(1), the Mayor issued Proclamation No.
3, an order adopting Salt Lake County Public Health Order 2020-03 requiring people to
Stay Home, Stay Safe except where this Order No. 3 is more restrictive, No Carpooling,
Behavior at Trailheads, Unlawful Use of Public Businesses, Defining certain Essential
Businesses, Closing All Restaurants, Bars, Taverns, Lodging in the Town of Alta,
Closing Non-Essential Municipal Services and Rescinding Section 1 of Town of Alta
Emergency Proclamation No. 2;
        WHEREAS, On April 1, 2020, pursuant to his authority from Utah Code Sections
53-2a-205, 53-2a-208(1) and 53-2a-209(1), the Mayor issued Proclamation No. 4,
requiring individuals who’ve traveled to Alta from outside the State of Utah to self-
quarantine for a period of 14 days; imploring non-resident homeowners to leave or not
travel to Alta, and requiring them to self-quarantine if they do travel to Alta; and
requiring housekeepers not to enter occupied units until those units have been vacant for
72 hours;
      WHEREAS, Proclamation Order Nos. 2, 3 and 4 are effective as long as
Emergency Proclamation No. 1 is in effect unless amended or rescinded by the Mayor;
        WHEREAS, Utah Code Section 53-2a-208(1)(b) requires that a local emergency
shall not be continued or renewed for a period in excess of 30 days except by or with the
consent of the governing body of the municipality;
       WHEREAS, On April 8, 2020, the Council adopted Resolution 2020-R-5 which
extended the local emergency until May 13, 2020;
       WHEREAS, The CDC has identified the potential public health threat posed by
COVID-19 both globally and in the United States as “high,” and has advised that person-
to-person spread of COVID-19 will continue to occur globally, including within the
United States.



                                         Page 1 of 2
       WHEREAS, The World Health Organization characterized the virus as a
worldwide pandemic and advises that the global pandemic is not subsiding. On March
16, 2020, the President’s Coronavirus Guidelines for America issued the recommendation
to avoid social gatherings in groups of more than 10 people. The President extended the
Guidelines until April 30, 2020.
        WHEREAS, On April 29, 2020, the Governor of the State of Utah issued an
executive order moving the state COVID-19 Public Health Risk Status From Red (High
Risk) to Orange (Moderate Risk) and requires adherence to statewide standards to slow
the spread of COVID-19.
        WHEREAS, As of April 29, 2020, the Center for Disease Control indicated there
are over 1,005,147 confirmed cases of COVID-19 with over 57,505 deaths in the United
States, with cases in every single state. There are 4,495 cases in Utah, 383
hospitalizations and 45 deaths. Salt Lake County has 2348 cases. The number of cases
continues to be significant the available and evidence suggests difficulty tracking the real
spread of COVID-19 because significant numbers of infections remain undetected due to
asymptomatic carriers, varying degrees of symptoms, a lack of adequate testing, and
other factors.
        WHEREAS, the Town of Alta has limited resources but due to its mountain
location is an attraction to residents of Salt Lake County and the Wasatch Front.
     NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE TOWN COUNCIL AS
FOLLOWS:
Section 1. The Town Council consents and extends the local emergency for an
additional 36 days. Therefore, the term of Emergency Proclamation No. 1 declaring a
local emergency is hereby extended until June 18, 2020.
Section 2. This Resolution shall become effective immediately upon passage.
APPROVED by the Town Council on the 6th day of May, 2020.
                                               By:

                                                     ________________________
                                                     MAYOR HARRIS SONDAK


ATTEST:

__________________________
PIPER LEVER, TOWN CLERK




                                          Page 2 of 2
Alta Town Council

Staff Report



To: Town of Alta Staff, Mayor and Town Council
From: Chris Cawley, Assistant Town Administrator/Emergency Manager
Re: COVID-19 Preparedness and Response in Alta
Date: April 30, 2020
Attachments:


STATE OF UTAH COVID-19 SITUATION, 4/30/2020:

State of Utah confirmed cases: 4495
Salt Lake County cases: 2361
People tested statewide: 105778
Hospitalizations: 383
Fatalities: 45

Please visit the following pages for updated information:

Salt Lake County COVID-19 Dashboard
State of Utah COVID-19 Website Case Counts Page

Governor Gary Herbert issued an executive order announcing that the State of Utah will move
from the “red” or “high risk” phase of the Utah Leads Together 2.0 COVID-19 Response and
Recovery Plan to the “orange” or “moderate risk” phase. The order allows the following
activities to resume: gatherings of 20 or fewer people, dining in at restaurants, and operation of
“personal care facilities” including salons and gyms, provided substantial precautions are taken
in all settings including hand washing and using hand sanitizer, wearing masks, and remaining six
feet away from other individuals whenever possible. The Governor continues to urge all Utahns
to limit non-essential travel and stay at home as much as possible, and to remind Utahns that
the threat of COVID-19 transmission could increase if these practices are not implemented.
Health officials have issued specific rules and guidelines for operation of certain kinds of
businesses.

Salt Lake County Mayor Jenny Wilson announced that Salt Lake County will follow the State of
Utah in moving towards the orange phase of Utah Leads Together 2.0. Summit County, which
has had Utah’s highest case rates, is also following the State of Utah toward reduced
restrictions.
State and local governments throughout the United States continue to take varied approaches
to the COVID-19 pandemic. While many states are moving toward reduced restrictions, some
continue to maintain stronger measures to mitigate transmission of the virus.

TOWN OF ALTA COVID-19 SITUATION, 4/30/2020

The Town of Alta is still not aware that any residents or current Alta business employees have
tested positive for COVID-19.

At its April 8th meeting, the Alta Town Council adopted Resolution 2020-R-5 consenting and
extending Emergency Proclamation NO. 1 OF 2020 in excess of thirty days, which extended the
town’s state of emergency declaration and all emergency proclamations subsequently issued by
Mayor Sondak until May 13th. This means the following restrictions remain in effect in the Town
of Alta:

-restaurants, bars, and lodging facilities including nightly/short-term rentals are closed
-Town of Alta operations are reduced to essential services
-Town of Alta facilities are closed to the general public aside from the Alta Post Office
-visitors to the Town of Alta must travel to Alta in separate vehicles unless passengers reside in
the same household
-gatherings at trailheads and in parking lots is prohibited
-urinating or defecating on public property is prohibited
-individuals travelling to Alta from outside the State of Utah must self-quarantine upon arrival in
Alta for 14 days
-housekeepers are prohibited from entering previously occupied units until those units have
been vacant for 72 hours

Town of Alta operations are relatively stable at this time. Administrative staff continue to work
from home while one administrative staff member works in the town office each weekday.
Recreation visitation to Alta is declining as Alta enters its typical springtime “mud season.” Staff
continues to monitor regional trends in the COVID-19 pandemic and the government response,
including opportunities for Federal and State of Utah assistance to residents, businesses, and
local governments. We remain cognizant of the medium- and long-term nature of the pandemic
and its impacts, including:

-many typical Alta summer events may be cancelled or substantially modified, including
volunteer events, festivals, and weddings
-Utah is moving toward reduced restrictions despite steady, yet not declining, case rates,
meaning that a peak of cases statewide may not have been reached as of today
-health experts foresee a resurgence of COVID-19 concurrent with the onset of the 2020-2021
flu season, which may complicate safe and timely opening of typical winter business operations
in Alta and other tourist destination communities
-all governments project lower revenues in the upcoming fiscal year and the Town of Alta’s
substantial dependence on sales tax revenue to fund basic operations and essential public
services makes our financial outlook relatively tenuous




                                                                                                  2
