                               JOINT RESOLUTION
                                     OF THE
                    TOWN OF ALTA (Resolution No. 2020-R-11
                                  AND OF THE
               UNIFIED FIRE SERVICE AREA (Resolution No. _______)
APPROVING AN ADJUSTMENT TO THE BOUNDARY OF THE SERVICE AREA TO INCLUDE ALL OF
                                   THE TOWN

      WHEREAS, the Unified Fire Service Area (“UFSA”) is a local district for fire protection and
emergency medical services;

        WHEREAS, the Town of Alta (“Alta”) is a municipal corporation and political subdivision
of the state of Utah;

         WHEREAS, the Board of Trustees of the UFSA and the Alta Town Council have concluded
that it is in the best interests of each and of the property owners and future residents in Alta for
UFSA and Alta to adjust the boundary of the UFSA to include all of Alta;

        WHEREAS, the affected area, which is described in attached Exhibit “A” (the “Affected
Area”), and comprises the entirety of the town of Alta; and

      WHEREAS, Utah Code Ann. §§ 17B-1-503(1), -417 provide a procedure whereby the
boundaries of the UFSA may be adjusted to include Alta; and

       WHEREAS, a Joint Resolution of the UFSA and of Alta Declaring an Intent to Adjust the
Boundary of The Unified Fire Service Area to Include the Town of Alta was adopted by the
Board of Trustees of the UFSA and by the Town Council of Alta; and

        WHEREAS, the UFSA Board of Trustees will hold a public hearing on July 21, 2020 on the
proposed adjustment of UFSA’s boundary to include the Affected Area after having provided
public notice as required by law; and

       WHEREAS, the Town Council of Alta has held a public hearing on the proposed
adjustment of UFSA’s boundary to include the Affected Area after having provided public notice
as required by law; and

        WHEREAS, no protests or an insufficient number of protests to the boundary
adjustment have been filed by owners of private land within the affected area or by registered
voters residing within the Affected Area; and

WHEREAS, At the time the UFSA Board of Trustees holds its public hearing it will affirm that, no
protests or an insufficient number of protests to the boundary adjustment have been filed by


                                                 1
owners of private land within the affected area or by registered voters residing within the
Affected Area; and

       WHEREAS, all statutory requirements necessary to the adoption of this Joint Resolution
have been satisfied; and

        WHEREAS, the UFSA Board of Trustees, after having considered any comments made at
the UFSA public hearing and the reasons for the proposed boundary adjustment, and the Town
Council of Alta, after having considered any comments made at the Alta public hearing and the
reasons for the proposed boundary adjustment, deem it to be in the best interests of both
entities and their residents and customers, and the owners of the Affected Area, for the
Affected Area to be annexed as part of UFSA and for UFSA to provide fire protection and
emergency medical services for the Affected Area in accordance with this Joint Resolution.

        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED and enacted by the Board of Trustees of the Unified
Fire Service Area and by the Town Council of Alta as follows:

         1.      That this Resolution is adopted by the respective boards for the purpose of
fulfilling and complying with the requirements of Utah Code Ann. § 17B-1-417(4) relating to
adjusting the boundary of UFSA to include Alta by annexing the Affected Area into the UFSA.

       2.     That the Board of Trustees of UFSA has determined and hereby does determine
the proposed boundary adjustment to be equitable and necessary under the circumstances.

      3.     That the Town Council of Alta has determined and hereby does determine the
proposed boundary adjustment to be equitable and necessary under the circumstances.

        4.     That the proposed boundary adjustment, which will include the Affected Area as
part of UFSA, as described and depicted in attached Exhibit “A” which is incorporated by
reference as part of this Joint Resolution, is hereby approved, with the boundary adjustment to
be effective upon the Lieutenant Governor’s issuance of a certificate of boundary adjustment
under Utah Code Ann. §§ 17B-1-417(7) and 67-1a-6.5.

       5.      That, from and after the effective date of this boundary adjustment, the Affected
Area shall be annexed to and be part of UFSA.

        6.      That the Chair of the UFSA Board of Trustees, acting for the Board, shall be and
hereby is authorized and instructed to issue a written notice of the boundary adjustment (the
“notice of impending boundary action”) for delivery to the Lieutenant Governor, including a
certification by the UFSA Board of Trustees that all requirements for the boundary adjustment
have been complied with.


                                               -2-
         7.     That the District Administrator of UFSA is instructed, within thirty days after the
adoption of this Joint Resolution by the later of the legislative bodies to adopt the Resolution,
to file with the Lieutenant Governor a copy of the notice of impending boundary adjustment
and a copy of an approved final local entity plat.

         8.      That, after the Lieutenant Governor has issued the Certificate of Boundary
Adjustment to UFSA, UFSA’s District Administrator is instructed to submit to the Salt Lake City
Recorder for recordation the following documents: the original notice of impending boundary
action; the certificate of boundary adjustment issued by the Lieutenant Governor; an approved
final local entity plat; and a certified copy of this Joint Resolution. After those documents have
been recorded, UFSA may levy and collect a property tax on the affected area and may
otherwise proceed as allowed by Utah Code Ann. §§ 17B-1-417(7) and 59-2-305.5.

       9.     That this Resolution has been placed on the agenda of meetings of the legislative
bodies of UFSA and Alta and this action is taken in compliance with the Utah Open and Public
Meetings Act.

        10.     That this Joint Resolution shall take effect upon its approval and adoption by the
later of the legislative bodies to act on this Resolution, but the annexation shall not be
complete until the Lieutenant Governor issues a certificate of boundary adjustment as provided
in paragraph 4 above and UFSA may not assess a property tax against the affected area until
the recordings referenced in paragraph 9 above have been completed. Property taxes will be
assessed starting January 1, 2021.

       Approved and passed by the Board of Trustees of the Unified Fire Service Area and by
the Town Council of Alta on the dates set forth below.

                                              UNIFIED FIRE SERVICE AREA


Date:                                         By:
                                                      Chair

ATTEST:



Title:




                                                -3-
                          TOWN OF ALTA



Date: June 17, 2020       By:
                                  Harris Sondak, Mayor


ATTEST:



Piper Lever, Town Clerk




                            -4-
Exhibit "A" (Legal Description of Affected Area)
