3c. 2017 Dark Skies Ordinance

                                              Chapter 17.132

                                                DARK SKIES
17.132.010: GENERAL PROVISIONS:

   A. Title: This chapter, together with the amendments codified in this chapter, shall be known and
      may be cited as the KETCHUM DARK SKY ORDINANCE.
   B. Purposes: The general purpose of this chapter is to protect and promote the public health, safety
      and welfare, the quality of life, and the ability to view the night sky by establishing regulations
      and a process of review for exterior lighting. This chapter establishes standards for exterior
      lighting in order to accomplish the following:
           1. To protect against direct glare and excessive lighting;
           2. To provide safe roadways for motorists, cyclists and pedestrians;
           3. To protect and reclaim the ability to view the night sky, and help preserve the quality of
               life and the tourist experience;
           4. To prevent light trespass in all areas of the city;
           5. To promote efficient and cost effective lighting;
           6. To ensure that sufficient lighting can be provided where needed to promote safety and
               security;
           7. To allow for flexibility in the style of lighting fixtures;
           8. To provide lighting guidelines;
           9. To provide assistance to property owners and occupants in bringing nonconforming
               lighting into conformance with this chapter; and
           10. To work with other jurisdictions within Blaine County to meet the purposes of this
               chapter.
   C. Scope: All exterior lighting installed after the effective date hereof in any and all zoning districts in
      the city shall be in conformance with the requirements established by this chapter and any other
      applicable ordinances. All existing lighting installed prior to the effective date hereof in any and all
      zoning districts in the city shall be addressed as follows:
           1. All existing lighting located on a subject property that is part of an application for a city
               planning department design review, conditional use, subdivision permit, or building
               permit is required to be brought into conformance with this chapter. Conformity shall
               occur prior to issuance of a certificate of occupancy, final inspection or final plat
               recordation, when applicable. For other permits, the applicant shall have a maximum of
               thirty (30) days from date of permit issuance to bring the lighting into conformance.
           2. All existing exterior commercial lighting that is not in conformance with this chapter shall
               be brought into conformance with this chapter by June 30, 2018.
           3. All existing lighting that does not meet the requirement of section 17.124.060 of this
               title, which states that "any parking, yard or building illumination in (any) zoning (district)
               shall be so directed as to protect adjacent properties from glare and direct lighting", is
               required to be brought into conformance with section 17.132 of this title.
           4. All existing exterior residential lighting, not affected by subsections C1 and C3 of this
               section, that does not comply with this chapter is required to be brought into
               conformance with this chapter by June 30, 2019.
           5. In the event of a discrepancy in applicable ordinances, the most restrictive shall apply.




                                                  41 of 140
17.132.020: Applicability

    A. The commission, the building official and/or the administrator shall have the authority to require
       new lighting and existing lighting pursuant to subsection 17.132.010.C.1 of this chapter to meet
       the requirements of this chapter.
    B. Lighting Plans Required: All applications for design review, conditional use, subdivision and/or
       building permits shall include lighting plans showing location, type, height, color temperature,
       lumen output and amount of all proposed and existing fixtures. The applicant shall provide
       enough information to verify that lighting conforms to the provisions of this chapter. The
       administrator, commission and/or building official shall have the authority to request additional
       information in order to achieve the purposes of this chapter.


    17.132.030: Lighting Standards

    A. Color Temperature: All exterior lighting shall utilize light sources not to exceed 2700 kelvin.
    B. Light Trespass and Overlighting: All existing and/or new exterior lighting shall not cause light
       trespass and shall protect adjacent properties from glare and excessive lighting. All vehicle
       lighting originating from a commercial property shall be shielded from other adjacent properties.
       Incidental light trespass (lighting emanating from turning motor vehicles or motion sensor
       lighting) is permitted.
            1. All lighting emitting from any zoning lot shall not cause the light level along any property
                line, as measured at a height of 60 inches above grade in a plane at any angle of
                inclination, to exceed the limitations listed in Figure 1: Light Trespass Matrix.

Figure 1: Light Trespass and Overlighting Matrix

           Zone of Light Source                                Impacted Zone                 Maximum Foot-
                                                                                               Candle Limits
 Non-commercial                                Non-commercial                             0.1 foot-candles
 (LR, LR-1, LR-2,GR-L,GR-H,STO-.4, STO-        (LR, LR-1, LR-2,GR-L,GR-H,STO-.4,
 1,STO-H,RU,AF)                                STO-1,STO-H,RU,AF)
 Non-commercial                                Commercial Zones                       0.5 foot-candles
 (LR, LR-1, LR-2,GR-L,GR-H,STO-.4, STO-        (CC, T,T-3000, T-4000, LI-1,LI-2,LI-3)
 1,STO-H,RU,AF)
 Commercial Zones                              Non-commercial                     0.1 foot-candles
 (CC, T,T-3000, T-4000, LI-1,LI-2,LI-3)        (LR, LR-1, LR-2,GR-L,GR-H,STO-.4,
                                               STO-1,STO-H,RU,AF)
 Commercial Zones                              Commercial Zones                   0.5 foot-candles
 (CC, T,T-3000, T-4000, LI-1,LI-2,LI-3)        (T,T-3000, T-4000, LI-1,LI-2,LI-3)
 Community Core (CC)                           Community Core (CC)                       No limit

    C. IESNA Guidelines: The commission or Administrator may require that any new lighting or existing
       lighting that comes before them meet the standards for maximum Illuminance output as
       established by IESNA.
    D. Nonessential Exterior Commercial and Residential Lighting: All nonessential exterior commercial
       and residential lighting shall be turned off after business hours and/or when not in use. Lights on
       a timer shall be used. Sensor activated lights shall be used to replace existing lighting that is




                                                   42 of 140
   desired for security purposes.
E. Area Lights:
       1. All area lights, including streetlights and parking area lighting, shall be level mounted and
           eighty-five degrees (85°) full cutoff type fixtures.
       2. Residential Streetlights shall be limited to one-thousand two hundred (1125) lumens,
           unless otherwise recommended by the Public Works Department.
       3. Nonresidential Streetlights shall be limited to one-thousand five hundred (1500) lumens,
           unless otherwise recommended by the Public Works Department.
       4. Lights on major intersections on state highways shall be limited to three-thousand (3000)
           lumens, unless otherwise recommended by the Public Works Department.
       5. Parking area lights are encouraged to be greater in number, lower in height and lower in
           light level, as opposed to fewer in number, higher in height and higher in light level.
           Parking lot lighting shall not exceed IESNA recommended illuminance (foot-candle) level
           and are encouraged to utilize the lowest range available.
       6. All freestanding area lights within a residential zone, except streetlights, shall be
           mounted at a height equal to or less than the value 3 + (D/3), where D is the distance in
           feet to the nearest property boundary.
       7. Luminaire Mounting Height: Freestanding luminaires shall be no higher than twenty-five
           feet (25') above the stand/pole base; except, that luminaires used for playing fields shall
           be exempt from the height restriction, provided all other provisions of this chapter are
           met and the light is used only while the field is in use; and except, that streetlights used
           on major roads may exceed this standard if necessary as determined by the city council,
           as advised by a lighting engineer. Building mounted luminaires shall be attached only to
           walls, and the top of the fixture shall not exceed the height of the parapet or roof,
           whichever is greater.
       8. Area lights on a timer, sensor activated, or turned off at 10:30 pm are exempt from
           section 17.132.030B of this chapter, provided all other standards of this section are met.
F. Uplighting: Uplighting is prohibited in all zoning districts, except as where permitted in this
   chapter.
G. Public Outdoor Lighting: Public outdoor lighting, including holiday lighting, shall be permitted to
   ensure the safety and enjoyment of the intended public use. All public lighting shall comply with
   the standards established herein and shall be turned off after hours of operation or when not in
   use. When practically possible, motion sensors may be used. Public Outdoor Lighting is exempt
   from lighting curfews and exempt from section 17.132.030B of this chapter.
H. Lighting Fixtures:
       1. All exterior lighting shall comply with the acceptable lighting fixtures located in Figure 2.
           All exterior lighting fixtures shall be full cutoff fixtures with the light source fully shielded,
           except as exempted in this chapter.
       2. The following figures and information sheets shall be incorporated into this chapter as
           guidelines for the public and the city for use in meeting the intent of this chapter. The
           figures and information sheets only serve as examples. The city does not endorse or
           discriminate against any manufacturer or company that may be shown, portrayed or
           mentioned by the examples. Additional information is provided at the Ketchum planning
           department.




                                                43 of 140
Figure 2: Lighting Fixture Guidelines




                                        44 of 140
   I. Lighting Fixture Exceptions and Additional Requirements
 Type of Lighting     Full Cutoff   Light Trespass               Additional Requirements
                         Light        Standards
                        Fixture
Canopy Lighting      Required      Not exempt        - All canopy lighting shall be recessed
                                                        sufficiently so as to ensure that no light
                                                        source is visible from or causes glare on
                                                        public rights of way or adjacent property.
Holiday Lights       Not           Exempt            - Shall only be displayed from November 20th
                     Required                           to March 20th.
                                                     - Exempt from color temperature
                                                        requirements set forth in this chapter.
                                                     - All new holiday lighting shall be LED lighting,
                                                        or bulb that has been demonstrated to be
                                                        the most energy efficient technology
                                                        available.
                                                     - Flashing holiday lighting is permitted.
                                                     - All private holiday lighting shall be turned off
                                                        at the close of business hours in the
                                                        Community Core zoning district, and after
                                                        10:30PM in all other zoning districts.
                                                        Outdoor Public lighting shall not be subject
                                                        to holiday lighting curfew.
Flagpole Lighting    Not           Exempt            - Upward flagpole lighting is permitted for
                     Required                           governmental flags only.
                                                     - The maximum lumen output shall be one
                                                        thousand three hundred (1,300) lumens.
                                                     - Flags are encouraged to be taken down at
                                                        sunset to avoid the need for lighting.
Floodlights          Not           Not Exempt        - Floodlights with external shielding shall be
                     Required                           angled provided that no light escapes above
                                                        a 25-degree angle measured from the
                                                        vertical line from the center of the light
                                                        extended to the ground.
                                                     - Floodlights shall not cause glare or light to
                                                        shine directly on adjacent property or public
                                                        rights of way.
                                                     - Shall be encouraged to be motion sensor
                                                        activated.
Neon Lights          Not           Not Exempt        - Neon Lights: Neon lights are only permitted
                     Required                           pursuant to the sign ordinance, chapter
                                                        17.127 of this title.
Sensor Activated     Required      Exempt              -    Shall be located so as to prevent lighting into
Lighting                                                    adjacent properties or into a public right of
                                                            way.




                                                45 of 140
                                                          -       Lighting shall activate only when motion on
                                                                  the property is detected and shall deactivate
                                                                  within no more than five (5) minutes.
                                                          -       Lighting shall not be triggered by any activity
                                                                  off the property or in the public right of way.
                                                          -       The maximum lumen output shall be 600
                                                                  lumens.
 Temporary             Required       Exempt              -       Lumens output shall be approved by the
 Lighting                                                         Administrator.
 Temporary             Not            Exempt              -       Utilized by public safety services. Exempt
 emergency             Required                                   from provisions of this chapter.
 lighting
 Highway 75            Required       Exempt              -       Correlated Color temperature 2700 kelvin.
 lighting

   J. Additional Development Restrictions
  Development Full Cutoff Light Light Trespass                            Additional Requirements
                     Fixture         Standards

 Motor Vehicle       Required           Not Exempt            -    The average foot-candle lighting level at
 Fueling Stations                                                  the pump for new and existing service
 and Motor                                                         stations is required to be no greater than
 Vehicle Service                                                   thirty (30) foot- candle average, as set by
 Stations                                                          the IESNA for urban service stations.
 Towers for          Not Required       Not                   -    All radio, communication and navigation
 Radio                                  Exempt                     towers that require lights shall have
 Communication                                                     dual lighting capabilities.
 and Navigation                                               -    For daytime, the white strobe light may
                                                                   be used, and for nighttime, only red
                                                                   lights shall be used.
                                                              -    Lighting that is required by legal
                                                                   jurisdictions are exempt from this
                                                                   provision.

17.132.040: PROHIBITED LIGHTING

    A. Any light source that does not meet the requirements of this chapter.
    B. Searchlights, beacons, laser source, and other high-intensity light fixtures.
    C. Except as otherwise allowed by this title, any lighting that is flashing, blinking, rotating, chasing,
       or rapidly changing in color or intensity is prohibited.
17.132.050: NOTIFICATION:

    A. The city building and planning department permits shall include a statement asking whether the
       subject property of the proposed work includes any exterior lighting.
17.132.060: THE CITY'S ROLE:

    A. The city will commit to changing all lighting within the city rights of way and on city owned
       property to meet the requirements of this chapter when luminaires expire.




                                                   46 of 140
3d. 1999 Dark Skies Ordinance

                                                Chapter 17.132

                                                   DARK SKIES
17.132.010: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
17.132.020: CRITERIA:
17.132.030: NOTIFICATION:
17.132.040: THE CITY'S ROLE:
17.132.050: VIOLATIONS, LEGAL ACTIONS AND PENALTIES:


17.132.010: GENERAL PROVISIONS:

A. Title: This chapter, together with the amendments codified in this chapter, shall be known and may be
cited as the KETCHUM DARK SKY ORDINANCE.
B. Purposes: The general purpose of this chapter is to protect and promote the public health, safety and
welfare, the quality of life, and the ability to view the night sky by establishing regulations and a process
of review for exterior lighting. This chapter establishes standards for exterior lighting in order to
accomplish the following:
        1. To protect against direct glare and



        3. To protect and reclaim the ability to view the night sky, and help preserve the quality of life and


        4. To prevent light trespass in all area




        8. To provide lighting gui
        9. To provide assistance to property owners and occupants in bringing nonconforming lighting


        10. To work with other jurisdictions within Blaine County to meet the purposes of this chapter.

C. Scope: All exterior lighting installed after the effective date hereof in any and all zoning districts in the
city shall be in conformance with the requirements established by this chapter and any other applicable
ordinances. All existing lighting installed prior to the effective date hereof in any and all zoning districts in
the city shall be addressed as follows:
1. All existing lighting located on a subject property that is part of an application for a city planning
department design review, conditional use, subdivision permit, or building permit is required to be




                                                    47 of 140
brought into conformance with this chapter. Conformity shall occur prior to issuance of a certificate of
occupancy, final inspection or final plat recordation, when applicable. For other permits, the applicant
shall have a maximum of thirty (30) days from date of permit issuance to bring the lighting into
conformance.

2. All existing exterior commercial lighting that is not in conformance with this chapter shall be brought
into conformance with this chapter by June 30, 2000.

3. All existing lighting that does not meet the requirement of section 17.124.060 of this title, which states
that "any parking, yard or building illumination in (any) zoning (district) shall be so directed as to protect
adjacent properties from glare and direct lighting", is required to be brought into conformance with
section 17.124.060 of this title.

4. All existing exterior residential lighting, not affected by subsections C1 and C3 of this section, that does
not comply with this chapter is required to be brought into conformance with this chapter by June 30,
2001.
5. In the event of a discrepancy in applicable ordinances, the most restrictive shall apply. (Ord. 1135, 2015)

17.132.020: CRITERIA:
The commission, the building official and/or the administrator shall have the authority to require new
lighting and existing lighting pursuant to subsection 17.132.010C1 of this chapter to meet the
requirements of this chapter.

A. Lighting Plans Required: All applications for design review, conditional use, subdivision and/or building
permits shall include lighting plans showing location, type, height and lumen output of all proposed and
existing fixtures. The applicant shall provide enough information to verify that lighting conforms to the
provisions of this chapter. The administrator, commission and/or building official shall have the authority
to request additional information in order to achieve the purposes of this chapter.
B. Full Cutoff Fixtures: All exterior lighting shall be full cutoff fixtures with the light source fully shielded,
with the following exceptions:
1. Luminaires that have a maximum output of two hundred sixty (260) lumens per fixture, regardless of
number of bulbs (equal to one 20- watt incandescent light), may be left unshielded, provided the fixture
has an opaque top to keep light from shining directly up (see figure 5 of this section).
2. Luminaires that have a maximum output of one thousand (1,000) lumens per fixture, regardless of
number of bulbs (equal to one 60-watt incandescent light) may be partially shielded, provided the bulb is
not visible, and the fixture has an opaque top to keep light from shining directly up (see figure 3 of this
section).
3.                                                                          light escapes above a twenty five
degree (25°) angle measured from the vertical line from the center of the light extended to the ground,
and only if the light does not cause glare or light to shine on adjacent property or public rights of way (see
figure 6 of this section). Floodlights with directional shielding are encouraged (see figure 7 of this section).
Photocells with timers that allow a floodlight to go on at dusk and off by eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. are
encouraged.




                                                    48 of 140
4. "Holiday lights", as defined in chapter 17.08 of this title, are exempt from the requirements of this
chapter for the six and one-half (6
holiday lights are prohibited on commercial properties. Flashing holiday lights on residential properties
are discouraged. Holiday lights are encouraged to be turned off after bedtime and after close of
businesses.
5. Sensor activated lighting may be unshielded, provided it is located in such a manner as to prevent direct
glare and lighting into properties of others or into a public right of way, and provided the light is set to
only go on when activated and to go off within five (5) minutes after activation has ceased, and the light
shall not be triggered by activity off the property.
6. Vehicle lights and all temporary emergency lighting needed by the fire and police departments or other
emergency services shall be exempt from the requirements of this chapter.

C. Light Trespass: It is the intent of this chapter to eliminate and prevent light trespass through the proper
installation of lighting fixtures. All existing and/or new exterior lighting shall not cause light trespass and
shall be such as to protect adjacent properties from glare and excessive lighting.

D. IESNA Guidelines: The commission may require that any new lighting or existing lighting that comes
before them meet the standards for foot-candle output as established by IESNA.

E. Nonessential Exterior Commercial And Residential Lighting: All nonessential exterior commercial and
residential lighting is encouraged to be turned off after business hours and/or when not in use. Lights on
a timer are encouraged. Sensor activated lights are encouraged to replace existing lighting that is desired
for security purposes.
F. Area Lights:
1. All area lights, including streetlights and parking area lighting, shall be full cutoff fixtures and are
encouraged to be eighty five degree (85°) full cutoff type fixtures. Streetlights shall be in accordance with
the Idaho Power franchise agreement and/or the light conformance schedule adopted by resolution by
the city council. Streetlights shall be high pressure sodium, low pressure sodium or metal halide, unless
otherwise determined by the council that another type is more efficient. Streetlights along residential
streets shall be limited to a seventy (70) watt high pressure sodium (hps) light. Streetlights along

lights at major intersections on state highways shall be limited to two hundred (200) watts hps. If the
council permits a light type other than high pressure sodium, then the equivalent output shall be the limit
for the other light type (see addendum 1, on file in the Ketchum plannin
one hundred (100) watt high pressure sodium lamp has a roughly equivalent output as a fifty five (55)
watt low pressure sodium lamp or a one hundred (100) watt metal halide lamp.

2. Parking area lights are encouraged to be greater in number, lower in height and lower in light level, as
opposed to fewer in number, higher in height and higher in light level. Parking lot lighting shall not exceed
IESNA recommended foot-candle levels.

3. All freestanding area lights within a residential zone, except streetlights, shall be mounted at a height
equal to or less than the value 3 + (D/3), where D is the distance in feet to the nearest property boundary.
G. Luminaire Mounting Height: Freestanding luminaires shall be no higher than twenty five feet (25')




                                                   49 of 140
restriction, provided all other provisions of this chapter are met and the light is used only while the field
                        that streetlights used on major roads may exceed this standard if necessary as
determined by the city council, as advised by a lighting engineer. Building mounted luminaires shall be
attached only to walls, and the top of the fixture shall not exceed the height of the parapet or roof,
whichever is greater.
H. Uplighting: Uplighting is prohibited in all zoning districts, except in cases where the fixture is shielded
by a roof overhang or similar structural shield from the sky, and an Idaho licensed architect or engineer
has stamped a prepared lighting plan that ensures that the light fixture(s) will not cause light to extend
beyond the structural shield, and except as specifically permitted in this chapter.
I. Flagpoles: Upward flagpole lighting is permitted
maximum lumen output is one thousand three hundred (1,300) lumens. Flags are encouraged to be taken
down at sunset to avoid the need for lighting.

J. Service Stations: The average foot-candle lighting level for new and existing service stations is required
to be no greater than thirty (30) foot- candles, as set by the IESNA for urban service stations.

K. Canopy Lights: All lighting shall be recessed sufficiently so as to ensure that no light source is visible
from or causes glare on public rights of way or adjacent property.

L. Landscape Lighting: Lighting of vegetation is discouraged and shall be in conformance with this chapter.
Uplighting is prohibited.
M. Towers: All radio, communication and navigation towers that require lights shall have dual lighting
capabilities. For daytime, the white strobe light may be used, and for nighttime, only red lights shall be
used.
N. Temporary Lighting: Temporary lighting that conforms to the requirements of this chapter shall be
allowed. Nonconforming temporary exterior lighting may be permitted by the administrator only after

annoyance or safety problems that may re
of the temporary nonconforming lighting. The applicant shall submit a detailed description of the
proposed temporary nonconforming lighting to the administrator. The administrator shall provide written
notice of said request to owners of property immediately adjacent to the subject property. Said notice
shall inform adjacent property owners they may comment on the request during a period of not less than
ten (10) days after mailing of the notice and prior to final action on said request.
O. Neon Lights: Neon lights are only permitted pursuant to the sign ordinance, chapter 17.127 of this title.
P. Figures: The following figures and information sheets shall be incorporated into this chapter as
guidelines for the public and the city for use in meeting the intent of this chapter. The figures and
information sheets only serve as examples. The city does not endorse or discriminate against any
manufacturer or company that may be shown, portrayed or mentioned by the examples. Additional
information is provided at the Ketchum planning department.




                                                   50 of 140
51 of 140
52 of 140
17.132.030: NOTIFICATION:

A. The city building and planning department permits shall include a statement asking whether the subject
property of the proposed work includes any exterior lighting. (Ord. 1135, 2015)

17.132.040: THE CITY'S ROLE:
A. The city will commit to changing all lighting within the city rights of way and on city owned property to
meet the requirements of this chapter through the franchise agreement with the power company and/or
through the light conformance schedule adopted by resolution by the council.
B. The city will assist property owners and/or occupants to correct any nonconforming lighting through
consulting with the owner/occupant and assisting in the provision of shields. (Ord. 1135, 2015)
17.132.050: VIOLATIONS, LEGAL ACTIONS AND PENALTIES:

A. Violations And Legal Actions: If, after investigation, the administrator finds that any provision of this
chapter is being violated, the administrator shall give notice by hand delivery or by certified mail, return
receipt requested, of such violation to the owner and/or to the occupant of such premises, demanding
that the violation be abated within thirty (30) days of the date of hand delivery or of the date of mailing
of the notice. The planning department staff shall be available to assist in working with the violator to
correct such violation. If the violation is not abated within the thirty (30) day period, the administrator
may institute actions and proceedings, either legal or equitable, to enjoin, restrain or abate any violations
of this chapter and to collect the penalties for such violations.

B. Penalty: A violation of this chapter, or any provision thereof, shall be punishable by a civil penalty of
one hundred dollars ($100.00), and each day of violation after the expiration of the thirty (30) day period
provided in subsection A of this section shall constitute a separate offense for the purpose of calculating
the civil penalty. (Ord. 1135, 2015)




                                                  53 of 140
