August 31, 2020

Memo to the Alta Planning Commission

Re: September 8, 2020, 3:00pm, Planning Commission Meeting

Attached is the agenda for our next meeting, September 8, 2020, 3:00pm, via zoom.

   •   Community Center Feasibility Study, after 4 advisory committee meetings, small group
       dialogues, open workshops, web site survey analyses and working with the avalanche
       consultants and construction firm, Ennead has made substantial progress on the community
       center. They will present their progress and current status of the building to date then open the
       discussion to you for comment, concerns and suggestions. There is still plenty of time to weigh
       in on ideas for the community center and this will be a great time to start/continue that process.
   •   Mike Maughan has graciously accepted our offer to give an update on ski area activities such as
       progress on Alf’s expansion and other improvements the ski area has been making on the hill.
       This won’t be as fun as an on-hill tour, but it will still be informative and covid friendly!
   •   Dark Skies, I got a little behind on tasks following our last meeting but now have a great path
       forward with the help of Audrey Larsen from the Utah Community Development Department
       and the University of Utah’s new Dark Sky Minor program. It looks like we will be able to use
       students from that program to perform a lighting assessment with their new drone technology.
       After that is complete, we will know just what needs to be done to be more outdoor lighting
       sensitive and will be able to speak with the businesses and residents with more certainty on
       what is necessary to modify their lighting to more suitably address dark skies. Taking what came
       out of the last commission meeting, the first go ‘round will be the “gentle hand” voluntary
       approach. After that we can then review the results to see if anything further must be done
       such as a new/formal ordinance. In the meantime, one of the things suggested by Ms. Larsen,
       was adoption of a non-binding resolution to “Promote Sustainable Outdoor, Lighting Practices
       And To Enact An Outdoor Lighting Ordinance.” A copy of that model ordinance is attached.
       While we are not ready to enact an outdoor lighting ordinance at this point, it may still be a
       good idea to adopt the model resolution. This is something the Town Council would do. Staff
       requests that the Planning Commission recommend that the Town Council adopt such a non-
       binding resolution. If you feel comfortable with that recommendation, that could come out of
       this next meeting.
