From: Sheridan Davis <sdavis@townofalta.com>
Date: Wednesday, September 2, 2020 at 10:26 AM
To: Harris Sondak <hsondak@townofalta.com>, Piper Lever <plever@townofalta.com>
Subject: Community Center Planning

(For circulation to other council members, town staff, and a letter I will speak to during public comment
at our next council meeting).

“Whose Land Is This?”

Good Morning!

In breathing in the cooler air of the day and watching migrating raptors fly through Alta, I wanted to
share some thinking around how a community center could best serve our town to create more
community.

The ideas shared thus far are all admirable. I applaud the work that has been done to flesh out concepts
to serve the broadest constituency imaginable in thinking about what community this center should
serve.

A new school, a general day lodge with public bathrooms, a hall for events that could serve nonprofit
and for profit entities, offices, housing for our public servants—these are concepts that I’ve heard
emphasized in planning what this area might be used for. And they’re great ideas. They are also ideas
for things that already exist in our town.

What we don’t have is a proven means of creating deeper community in a mountain town. That means
is affordable housing. Affordable housing could provide a linchpin for more community engagement.
Affordable housing could be a strong revenue stream for the town. And affordable housing could be a
small first step toward reducing the transient nature of the population that moves through Alta.

Some may say we have affordable housing in Alta—employee housing. But are employees free if their
work, housing and community are all tied to their employment situation? People in our community have
died by suicide because of less. How can residents be fully engaged in their communities if their
unfettered opinions and actions might cost them their housing, job and community?

I do not believe that the most beautiful places in the world should only belong to the most affluent
people in the world. Is Alta forever to be a community of second home owners, their property
caretakers, and the employees of businesses in town? We can dream better and do better in Alta.

Of all the ideas shared about a potential community center, I believe the idea for affordable housing
should percolate to the top and receive first priority emphasis.

With hopes for a more diverse and stable community in Alta,

Sheridan Davis
Councilwoman
