                                   Summary of Urban County CDBG Qualification Process


Background on the CDBG & HOME Programs:

For more than 40 years, the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) Program has provided local communities with an
important source of funds to address affordable housing and community and economic development needs. The CDBG
program provides grants to create neighborhood approaches that improve the physical, economic and social conditions in
communities. In Salt Lake County CDBG funds have afforded Non-Profit Agencies the ability to provide housing programs and
critical facility improvements. The housing programs allow low income residents to improve their homes and maintains the
existing housing stock, ensuring the critical repairs are completed to provide a safe and healthy home for everyone. Funds
also assist with down payment assistance to provide home ownership opportunities to low income residents of the County.
These funds have also been targeted within the 16 Jurisdictions which were previously included in the Urban County area to
provide street improvements, park improvements along with accessibility improvements for neighborhood revitalization in
areas most in need within these communities.

For more than 20 years, the HOME program has helped communities provide access to affordable housing for low-income
households. The HOME program provides grants to create safe, sanitary, and affordable housing in communities nationwide.
In Salt Lake County, the HOME funds provide critical housing programs in partnership with Non-Profit Agencies. These
programs include outcomes such as reduction of asthma triggers, lead hazard remediation, and mitigation of radon gas
hazards. HOME funds also participate in Rental Housing Projects, and the provision of Tenant Based Rental Assistance.

Background on Urban County Qualification:

For the last 27 years, Salt Lake County has been qualified as an Urban County for purposes of receiving the formula grant
allocations of the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) program from the Department of Housing and Urban
Development (HUD). This requires interlocal agreements with the small cities and towns in the county which are not
entitlement cities (entitlement cities have 50,000+ residents and receive funds directly from HUD). Currently there are three
interlocal agreements which have been entered into over the history of the Urban County as new jurisdictions have been
added. Salt Lake County receives the allocation of funding from HUD and administers the CDBG program which provides
services to the residents of the Urban County. Representatives from the participating jurisdictions are included in the two
citizen advisory councils that review applications for funding and make recommendations for the use of the CDBG funds.

Every three years, Salt Lake County must recertify to remain an Urban County. The next renewal period is for 2021-2023. The
process involves notifying each jurisdiction of the requalification timeline, and also confirming that participating jurisdictions
wish to remain a member of the Urban County. That notification process ended in June 2020, and it was determined that all
participating cities and towns agreed to remain a part of the Urban County. The County submitted the required
documentation for the renewing jurisdictions to HUD for review and approval in June. In HUD’s response, they have required
several changes to language in the interlocal agreements, primarily related to the inclusion of the Emergency Solutions Grant
(ESG) formula allocations. Due to inconsistencies in terminology over the time that the three interlocal agreements were
enacted, it was suggested that a single new interlocal agreement should be developed rather than amending the three
existing agreements which have outdated language. The deadline to submit the updated interlocal agreement to HUD - fully
executed with approvals by the participating cities and towns - is September 18, 2020. This is a non-negotiable deadline,
which must be met by every participating jurisdiction in the Urban County in order to not jeopardize approximately
$3,000,000 in annual federal CDBG and ESG funds. HUD’s final review must be completed by September 30, 2020 for the
County to be eligible for the next year of CDBG funding which begins October 1, 2020.

The following link is to a 15-minute HUD presentation which is targeted to counties regarding the Urban County qualification
process, but it has information which may be helpful to the Mayor to understand the Urban County designation.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZFy_qnq-cTQ&feature=youtu.be
