Alta Town Council

Staff Report



To: Town Council
From: Chris Cawley, Assistant Town Administrator
Re: ACVB Board of Directors Presentation to Alta Town Council on October 14th
Date: October 7, 2020
Attachments: Alta Chamber and Visitors Bureau Proposed Strategic Plan-October 2020


Background:

Alta Chamber and Visitors Bureau (ACVB) has served the Alta business community as a
destination marketing organization, visitor information provider, and business league
since 2011. The ACVB Board of Directors has reported to the Town of Alta throughout
the year 2020 about the status of ACVB operations, and the following points summarize
recent events that led to our current position:

   •   ACVB’s most recent coordinator left the position in March of 2020, as the COVID-
       19 Pandemic was beginning to influence local business operations in Alta
   •   In the wake of our employee’s departure, the Board began a conversation about
       ACVB’s mission and whether the program of services it has offered in recent
       years provides adequate return on the investment made by the Town of Alta and
       ACVB members
   •   Given indications that various ACVB marketing programs have not been as
       successful as intended, the Executive Committee of the ACVB Board has
       discussed an alternative model for ACVB in weekly or biweekly meetings
       throughout Summer 2020

Updated ACVB Strategic Plan:

In my staff report to the council last month, I outlined key elements of a strategic plan
for ACVB that includes the following program areas, administrative components, and
other features:

   •   Retention of a destination marketing program focused on cooperative marketing
       opportunities
   •   Public art and events program that seeks to improve Alta as a destination and
       “enhance the economy through the arts”
   •   Member services program including online member business listings, social
       media and newsletter content highlighting members, special events for
       members and other services
   •   The position of ACVB Coordinator would be indefinitely suspended, while the
       ACVB Board would remain in place and collaborate to write grants, administer
       board proceedings, manage finances, and maintain relationships with the Town
       of Alta and Alta Community Enrichment
   •   ACVB Board would develop an agreement with ACE, whereby ACE would provide
       many of the services described above

ACVB Presentation to the Alta Town Council on October 13, 2020

The purpose of ACVB’s presentation to the Town Council will be to discuss the strategic
plan attached to this report in more detail, hear feedback from the council, and ask for
the Town’s support. 2020 Board president Rosie O’Grady will lead the presentation and
we will be joined by board members Brandon Ott, Connie Marshall, Sara Gibbs, and
myself. Pending an indication of support from the Town of Alta for the programs
outlined in the updated Strategic Plan, the ACVB Board will seek to enter into an
agreement for funding of ACVB activities with the Town of Alta.




                                                                                           2
                         Alta Chamber & Visitors Bureau (ACVB)
                                  Draft Strategic Plan
                                    October 7, 2020


Introduction
The Alta Chamber and Visitors Bureau Board of Directors has been actively discussing ACVB’s
mission, its role in the Alta community, and the success of its current model as a destination
marketing organization throughout 2020. Following the departure of the most recent ACVB
Coordinator, which occurred as the COVID-19 pandemic was beginning to impact everyday life,
the economy, and our understanding of the future, the ACVB Board of Directors conducted a
facilitated discussion at its annual retreat. The ACVB Board confronted some of ACVB’s
ongoing issues during the discussion, including inconsistent member engagement,
disappointing performance of key ACVB marketing initiatives, and difficulties in board member
and employee recruitment.
As a result of the discussion, the ACVB Board agreed to explore a new model for the
organization, under which ACVB would no longer focus solely on destination marketing, due to
the high costs of competing for visibility in the ski industry destination market, ACVB’s relatively
limited budget, and the substantial destination marketing investments being made by ACVB
members and other organizations including Ski Utah and Visit Salt Lake. The Board determined
that ACVB should explore ways to enhance the destination experience for Alta visitors through
events programming, visitor information services, and a program of public art and placemaking.
The Executive Committee of the ACVB Board of Directors, composed of Rosie O’Grady,
Brandon Ott, Chris Cawley ,and Connie Marshall, met on Friday, July 10th to discuss a future
direction for ACVB. The following represents the outcome of this discussion and has been
updated weekly during ACVB Executive Committee meetings. This document is intended to
facilitate further discussion by the full ACVB Board, Alta Community Enrichment (ACE), and the
Town of Alta and may become a more formal strategic plan or prospectus for the future model
of ACVB.

Mission
**This is a conceptual, updated mission statement for ACVB that has not been adopted by the
ACVB Board.**

The Alta Chamber & Visitors Bureau (ACVB) promotes Alta and Little Cottonwood Canyon as a
world-class, year-round, mountain resort destination, and seeks to enhance the Alta experience
for local and destination visitors. ACVB functions as a partnership between the public entity of
the Town of Alta and the Alta business community.

Structure
   ●   ACVB Advisory Board
         o ACVB continues to exist as an advisory body, members of which collaborate to
            fulfil various administrative and programmatic functions
                    ▪ ACVB Board may outsource certain administrative tasks such as
                      bookkeeping
          o Position of ACVB Coordinator would be suspended indefinitely
          o Board structure changes to include expertise in destination marketing and
              community art, and representation from ACE
   ●   Funded by annual appropriation from the Town of Alta; ACVB membership dues
   ●   Relationship with Alta Community Enrichment (ACE)
          o Develop agreement with ACE to fulfill various initiatives described below
          o ACVB acts as pass-through organization between Town of Alta, ACVB
              membership, and ACE


Budget

In recent years, the ACVB budget has included roughly $100,000 in revenues and expenses.
The Town of Alta has provided the bulk of ACVB revenues in the form of monthly payments of
$7,000, for a total of $84,000. ACVB has budgeted to receive roughly $22,000 in member dues
each year.

Throughout the process of developing this plan, the ACVB Board has envisioned the
organization operating with similar revenues to what it has previously had at its disposal.
However, the 2021 Town of Alta budget assumes substantially lower sales tax revenues this
year due to the COVID-19 Pandemic, and the Town has budgeted contributions to ACVB half
the amount of previous years. The Board also anticipates that ACVB members may be cutting
their own expenses and might opt out of paying member dues this year. Thus, a working budget
for ACVB in 2020-2021 assumes total revenues of $64,000, and lays out a program of activities
totaling the same amount of expenses.

Initiatives & Programs

The ACVB Advisory Board will partner with ACE and other contractors and outside
organizations to provide the following services to ACVB membership, the Alta business
community, and visitors to Alta.


       Destination Marketing

          ●   ACVB will maintain a destination marketing program focused on cooperative
              marketing opportunities. Partner with organizations including Utah Office of
              Tourism, Visit Salt Lake, and Ski Utah.
          ●   Target $20-$50k in annual grant-matching expenses and other marketing-related
              costs
                 o Develop annual Co-op marketing plan and participation. Co-op programs
                     and spending to focus on winter activation.
                 o Apply for and manage all grant activity
                        ▪ Write annual grant applications to the Utah Office of Tourism
                             (UOT)
                        ▪ Oversee, collect, and maintain information required by grant or
                             UOT cafeteria program
                 ▪   Manage grant marketing budget and deadlines
                 ▪   Pursue potential new sources for funding
          o   Monitor return on investment

Community-Guided, Visitor Information

   ●   Provide resources to visitors on the Alta experience
   ●   Transition applicable content and information from discoveralta.com to
       altacommunity.org. Content to highlight business membership, community, visitor
       information, public arts and events.
           o Member business listings on ACE website
           o Social media, eNewsletters, and blog
                  ▪ Manage editorial calendar in partnership with ACVB advisory
                      board via quarterly meetings.
                  ▪ Blog - Monthly blog during winter months (Oct - April) and bi-
                      monthly in shoulder/summer months (May - September). Local
                      character exploration to provide readers a deeper connection to
                      Alta.
                  ▪ eNewsletter - Manage current eNewsletter list. Cadence similar to
                      blog. eNewsletter can be 50% inspiration / 50% transactional.
                      Explore possible email list segmentation.
                  ▪ Social Media - Current ACE channel is highly engaged, needs
                      further growth for greater reach. Organic growth through free
                      partnership opportunities with local Destination Marketing
                      Organizations (DMOs). As events and arts grow in the community
                      find a balanced voice between inspiration and transactional* *ACE
                      has control over transactional voice but the opportunity to drive
                      ROI for the town.
           o Photos/Video - Manage photo and video assets. Options exist. Shorter,
               more frequent video projects. Don’t need to be overproduced. Continued
               photography curation and distribution.
Public Arts & Events

   ●   “Enhance the economy through the arts”
   ●   Created and executed by ACE, in partnership with ACVB Board and member
       businesses
   ●   Sharing the Alta experience and building community with visitors and locals
          o Year around events
                  ▪ Partner with member businesses
          o Placemaking/Sense of Place and town beautification
                  ▪ Aesthetic theme through town
                  ▪ Seasonal beautification efforts
                  ▪ Installation of works of art in public spaces in Alta
          o Demonstrate return on investment
Membership Services
   ●   Provide services to support member community and manage ACVB business
       functions
        ●   Partner with ACE for member events
               o Networking
               o Education
               o Opportunity to provide feedback to ACVB, Town of Alta
    Administration

        ●   Functions to be performed by ACVB Advisory Board members or contractors and
            consultants
               o Bookkeeping
               o Accounting
               o Strategic planning and development
               o Board administration
               o Grant writing
               o Record keeping
               o Legal counsel

Notes
    ● Several prominent components of the most recent iteration of ACVB are proposed to
      be discontinued:
          o Coordinator position
          o Stand-alone ACVB website—discoveralta.com
          o ACVB Social Media Channels
          o Booking engine (pending more analysis)
    ● The ACVB Board recognizes that Alta’s economic outlook is uncertain given the
      ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and that it is likely ACVB resources will be curtailed in
      the near-term due to revenue shortfalls at the Town of Alta and member businesses
    ● The ACVB Board intends to work with the Town of Alta, ACVB members, and ACE to
      foster and develop the program areas described above over the following 2-5 years
      and seeks to retain similar amounts of funding to what ACVB had been provided
      prior to the economic downturn associated with COVID-19

Next Steps
    ●   Discuss and refine current draft strategic plan document with full ACVB Board
    ●   Engage with ACVB membership to take feedback on recommended new direction for
        ACVB
    ●   Present final strategic planning documents to Alta Town Council, seek new
        agreement for ongoing Town of Alta funding
    ●   Develop agreement between ACVB and ACE to define program new ACVB-ACE
        program areas
    ●   Amend ACVB bylaws
           o Update mission statement
           o Update ACVB Board of Directors provisions
