                                       Alta Ski Area Proposal 2020

A proposal to exchange private lands outside of the ski area and address backcountry parking issues in
                                          the Town of Alta.



Alta Ski Area has put this proposal together in harmony with the Mountain Accord’s purpose of
preserving the legacy of the Wasatch through responsible stewardship of the natural resources,
providing quality recreation experiences, development and implementation of a environmentally-
sustainable transportation system and supporting a vibrant economy. This proposal addresses a
purpose of the Mountain Accord and interests expressed form the Central Wasatch Commission by
moving private lands outside of Alta Ski Area’s area boundary into public ownership, as well as,
providing a short term relief to a backcountry user parking issue in Alta until longer term transportation
solutions can be developed and implemented.

Alta Ski Area has private lands outside of the ski area boundary on the North side of Little Cottonwood
Canyon, as well as, in Big Cottonwood Canyon it would be willing to exchange for lands within the ski
area boundary, in conjunction with replacing parking spots within the ski area boundary that are being
used by backcountry users. Currently, there is very little public parking in the Town of Alta for
backcountry users. During the past two seasons, over 200 parking spots in Alta Ski Area’s parking lots
have been used by backcountry users on days when Alta has turned skiers away due to the lack of
parking. Alta Ski Area estimates it has lost more than $250,000 in revenue over the past two seasons
due to the use of its parking by backcountry users.

To address Alta Ski Area’s concerns regarding parking for backcountry users and to move private lands
located outside the ski area boundary which are used by the backcountry community to public
ownership, Alta Ski Area proposes the following:

    •   Modify existing parking areas within Alta Ski Area’s special use permit to add 220 parking spots
        to replace parking spaces being regularly used by backcountry users. These parking spaces can
        be added by squaring up the Wildcat, Flagstaff and Grizzly parking areas which are located on
        Forest Service land within Alta’s Special Use permit. The Flagstaff modifications are located
        adjacent to a proposed transportation hub site location along State Road 210 across from the
        Town of Alta’s proposed Community Center. These modifications will provide some relief for
        the parking issues in the Town of Alta until longer term transportation solutions can be
        developed and implemented.

    •   Alta Ski Area owns a 40 acre parcel located in Big Cottonwood Canyon’s Mineral Fork, adjacent
        to the Twin Peaks Wilderness Area and only ½ mile away from Lake Blanche. Alta Ski Area
        proposes to exchange this parcel for mineral survey fractions owned by the Forest Service that
        are interspersed in the private lands owned by Alta Ski Area within Alta’s and Solitude’s ski area
        boundaries under the Small Tract Act of 1983. Mineral survey fractions are small parcels owned
        by the Forest Service interspersed in private lands which cannot be efficiently administered,
        accessed or used because of their size, shape and location. Alta Ski Area has identified 34
        mineral fractions within Alta’s private lands in Grizzly Gulch and Honeycomb Canyon, that
        qualify for exchange under the Small Tract Act of 1983.
    •   Alta Ski Area owns 144 acres of land on the North side of Little Cottonwood Canyon and in Silver
        Fork that it is willing to exchange on a FMV basis for privately owned lands within its ski area
        boundary. Alta Ski Area has identified 15 acres owned by Salt Lake City that meet this criteria
        for which Alta has interest in exchanging for. This exchange would provide backcountry users
        access from the Town of Alta to the North ridgeline without needing to cross privately owned
        lands.


Alta Ski Area, the Forest Service and Salt Lake Department of Public Utilities are long-term partners in
providing outdoor recreation on public lands while minimizing and mitigating the impact upon
watershed and natural resources. This proposal appropriately reflects this ongoing partnership and
furthers the purposes of the Mountain Accord while preserving access for dispersed recreation users.
Alta Parking Discussion                                                     06/25/2020



Background

   •   Alta has supported human powered recreation through allowing permissive use of its
       private lands in the Town of Alta and allowing uphill travel within the ski area pre- and
       post- ski area operations.

   •   Alta has supported non-ski area patrons by allowing use of its developed and
       maintained parking within its special use permit for many years.

   •   There is very limited public parking for non-ski area patrons within the Town of Alta.
       Most of the parking is privately owned or within Alta’s Special Use permit.

   •   Parking lots developed and maintained within the Alta’s Special Use Permit are assets of
       the ski area. The ski area has the right and privilege to restrict use of those parking lots
       to its patrons.

   •   The number of visitors accessing the backcountry from the Town of Alta has increased
       exponentially during the past 20 years (possible more than 300%).

   •   To access public backcountry terrain from the Town of Alta, users must cross private
       land or land within Alta’s Special Use Permit.



The Issue

The number of non-ski area patrons parking in Alta’s developed and maintained parking lots is
materially impacting the ski area and is inconsistent with the ski area’s rights and privileges
under its Special Use Permit. This has resulted in the loss of thousands of dollars in revenue
over the past two seasons. Alta Ski Area desires to exercise its rights and privileges allowed
under its Special Use Permit and would like to find a solution that also continues to support
non-ski area dispersed recreation.
Options for Discussion

The following options for discussion are consistent with the ski area’s rights and privileges
under its special use permit.

   1. Reduce or eliminate the backcountry demand by closing Alta’s private lands or
      restricting parking to purchasers of ski area lift tickets.

   2. Create a backcountry ski area on the North side of Little Cottonwood Canyon with
      parking and restrooms. Backcountry users would pay a fee to use amenities supporting
      the backcountry ski area (parking, restrooms, etc.).

   3. Create a backcountry parking lot with restrooms above the Town of Alta outside of
      Alta’s Special Use Permit. Under this option Alta would consider selling its private lands
      on the North side of the Little Cottonwood Canyon to WBA or another third party to
      ensure public access to these lands.

   4. Create additional parking within Alta’s Special Use Permit to offset parking being
      consumed by non-ski area patrons. A proposed location would be between the Alta and
      Rustler lodges. The parking area would be across the highway from the Town of Alta’s
      community center and adjacent UDOT’s proposed transportation center or gondola
      station.
