1.12.21

Memo to the Town Council

From Guldner

Re: Remaining Zoning Issues

After our last work session staff was charged with identifying the consensus issues from the list of 41
remaining separate sections. I know it may not have felt like it, but we made great progress in that
meeting. Not only did we winnow the list from 41 to the following 11 outstanding issues, but we really
highlighted the main remaining issue; Section 10-6A-9: Special Regulations: G. Stream Regulations: (3)
re: what exemptions should be allowed for Alta Ski Area Commercial ski and picnic structures, if any, and
the process involved for any such exemptions including the role of the town.

We will incorporate the consensus issues into the redlined ordinance and continue our discussion of the
remaining issues in our February meeting.

Brief explanations of why the following 11 are still on the list are included below in red.



    1) p.1, 10-1-2: Purpose: propose adding a sentence recognizing the vital link between
       environmental and economic prosperity. Needs work, specificity on the link/connection between
          environment and economic prosperity.
    2) p.10, 10-1-7: Building Permit Required, proposes to delete paragraph B, replace with language
       shown on attached document. Whatever language on proposed exemptions will have to be inserted
          here if it also exempts building permits.
    3) p.17, 10-6A-9: Special Regulations: G. Stream Regulations: (3), this is the major issue for
       discussion. Exemption or no exemption, under what process, with town involvement up to and
       including approval or veto power or not. This is the main issue remaining, we have discussed
          numerous options, and all are familiar with the topic.
    4) p.26, 10-6D-2: Purpose, proposes to add allowance for employee/owners’ quarters in the Base
       Facilities zone, which otherwise prohibits residential uses. Further discussion, explanation was
          desired. This was put in to reflect the current and desired condition of existing employee and owner
          housing in the commercial establishments in the base facilities zone, which prohibits standalone
          residential.
    5) p.27, 10-6D-4: Permitted, Prohibited Uses: proposes to add conferences to permitted uses and
       possibly “take out” liquor sales. We will check with state liquor license requirements. Further
          clarification on this suggestion was requested.
    6) p.27, 10-6D-4: Permitted, Prohibited Uses, proposed to add a clarifier to prohibited uses. Further
          clarification on the clarifying language was requested.
    7) p.30, 10-6D-14: Special Regulations: F. proposes to add language to clarify that no existing
       vegetation shall be removed, unless that vegetation is non-native. Discuss question on how this
          condition could be determined.
    8) p.36, 10-7-21: Technical Review Committee, amends language Re: UFA fire inspections to cover
       any future agency changes. UFA may be involved, discuss/amend to ensure future operational options
          are covered.
9) p.38, 10-8-4, Repairs, Alterations, Deterioration and Demolition re: noncomplying structures,
   proposes to add opportunity for extension of time to complete a noncomplying structure if lack
   of completion is through no fault of the owner. Discuss how to determine, judge whether fault of the
    owner or not, should this be included?
10) p.38, 10-8-4: (3)(b), proposes to allow 3 years instead off 2 to submit plan for rebuild, has been
    discussed and I thought agreed upon. It was questioned that 3 years is too long to submit a plan.
11) p.49, 8-3-6: Private Wastewater Disposal, G.2. proposes language to apply to existing dwellings
    if renovating, remodeling or other needs requiring holding tanks being replaced. Additional
    discussion and definition were requested for appropriate language.
