Ranked Choice Voting
 Down the Rabbit Hole of Social Choice Theory
RCV Set Up

Type 1. 7 voters: a b c d
Type 2. 6 voters: b a c d
Type 3. 5 voters: c b a d
Type 4. 3 voters: d c b a
Problem 1: Perverse Outcomes

• Because no candidate has a simple majority of 11 first- place votes, the candidate with the fewest first-
  choice votes, d, is eliminated first.
• Then d’s 3 votes go to c, giving c 8 votes.
• Because none of the remaining candidates has a majority at this point, b, with the new lowest total of 6
  votes, is eliminated next, and b’s second- place votes go to a, who is elected with a total of 13 votes.
• Now assume the three type 4 voters raise a from fourth to first place in their rankings without changing their
  rankings of the other three candidates.
• Now a has a total of 10 first- place votes, which is not a majority.
• Hence, the candidate with the fewest first-place votes, c, is eliminated, and his or her 5 votes are given to b,
  who wins with a total of 11 votes.
• This is indeed perverse: a loses when he or she moves up in the rankings of the three type 4 voters from
  fourth to first place and thereby receives three more first-place votes.
Problem 2: Discarded Ballots

• Some proponents of municipal election reform advocate for the adoption of Instant Runoff Voting
  (IRV), a method that allows voters to rank multiple candidates according to their preferences.
  Although supporters claim that IRV is superior to the traditional primary-runoff election system,
  research on IRV is limited. We analyze data taken from images of more than 600,000 ballots cast
  by voters in four recent local elections. We document a problem known as ballot “exhaustion,”
  which results in a substantial number of votes being discarded in each election. As a result of
  ballot exhaustion, the winner in all four of our cases receives less than a majority of the total
  votes cast, a finding that raises serious concerns about IRV and challenges a key argument made
  by the system's proponents.
Why Ballots Are Discarded

• First, some research suggests that, by requiring voters to rank multiple candidates rather than
  simply identifying the one they most prefer, IRV can become more difficult and confusing for
  voters.
• Second, IRV does not guarantee that the winner in the final round actually secures the majority of
  all votes cast. This occurs because, in practice, a large number of ballots are eliminated during
  earlier rounds of redistribution due to exhaustion, and are thus excluded from the final vote tally.
