                                 REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS
                         PROJECT: Assessment of Financial Resources
                                CLIENT: Town of Alta, Utah
                                    RFP RELEASE DATE: -
                                   RFP CLOSING DATE: -
                                PROCUREMENT CONTACT: -


1.     Introduction & Background Information.

The Town of Alta, Utah (the “Town”) is located eight miles up Little Cottonwood Canyon and is
accessed via State Highway 210, a designated scenic byway. The town boundary contains
roughly four and a half square miles of land area, about 80 percent of which is owned and
managed by the United States Forest Service. Powder hounds and summer visitors are drawn to
Alta Ski Area, five lodges, and accessory businesses to enjoy the scenic beauty and recreation
opportunities Alta has to offer. The 2010 census population is 383 residents, but thousands of
people visit Alta on numerous days each year.

The Town was incorporated as a municipality in 1970 and it operates as a five member council
form of government under Title 10, Utah Code Annotated 153, as amended. The Town has 12
full time and 15 part time employees. The Town operates a police department, a small contract
post office, and culinary water and sewer systems. The Town regulates land use on private
lands in Alta, and issues building permits for development. The Town also manages a summer
recreation program, a recycling program, and various licensing programs, and provides the bulk
of the funding to operate a local destination marketing organization.

Most of the Town’s municipal services are budgeted and paid for in the general fund using sales
and property tax revenues, while its water and sewer systems are managed as individual
enterprise funds and supported through user fees. The Town of Alta is required by state law to
provide an annual audit of its financial statements by a certified public accountant in
accordance with generally accepted auditing standards. This audit must be submitted to the
Office of the State Auditor within 180 days after the end of the fiscal year. For the fiscal year
ending June 30, 2019 revenues across all funds were $2,379,000 and total
expenses/expenditures were approximately $2,027,000.

2.     Intent.

The Town of Alta, Utah is requesting proposals from qualified proposers to (a) assess the
Town’s revenue and expense structure, (b) examine current and potential revenue sources
available to the Town, and (c) make recommendations to the Town that will improve the
revenue and expense structure. The Town’s goals for the project are to ensure fiscal
responsibility and promote the Town’s sustainable investment of public resources for Alta
residents, visitors, and businesses. The foregoing work, together with ancillary and additional
services as may be reasonably required to accomplish the desired project is referred to herein
as the “Project”.



                                                1
The Town desires to enter into a contract with a qualified and acceptable consultant (“the
Consultant”) for provision of all labor, supplies and materials necessary to successfully
accomplish the Project. As more fully explained below, the selection of a Consultant will be
based on the bid received as well as on the Town’s determination of the bidders’ respective
expertise, experience, and resources that can complement the limited resources of the Town in
successfully completing the project.

3.     Detailed Description of Project.

The Project consists of assessing the Town’s revenue and expense structure. The Project will
include, without limitation, the following:

          (a)      Analyze and assess the Town’s fiscal year budget using an average of the last
                   3 years.

          (b)      Analyze and assess current revenue sources of the Town through Town-
                   issued licenses, use and impact fees, and taxes.

          (c)      Explore potential revenue sources the Town is not currently utilizing.

          (d)      Analyze usage of Town services by residents and businesses to determine
                   whether there are disproportionate uses of services and whether a fee structure
                   could be instituted to overcome any disproportionate use if one is identified.
          (e)      Revised Fee Schedules: if necessary, propose revised fee schedules, in the
                   same or similar format as the current license schedules, to more adequately
                   and fairly cover administrative costs (including potential enhanced fees for
                   enhanced services, disproportionate service costs, and the cost of special
                   regulatory efforts).

          (f)      Ordinances: review Town ordinances, as needed, and make
                   recommendations for improvements.

          (g)      Administration: review Town licensing administration practices and
                   procedures and make recommendations for improvements.

4.     Schedule.

At a minimum, the Town anticipates the following schedule for the Project:

                Event                                       Date
                Request for Proposal Issued                 X
                Proposal Deadline                           X
                Selection Committee Review & Award          X
                Signed agreement                            X
                Completed Study                             X
                Present findings to Town Council            X
                Town considers modifications                X


                                                2
5.     Proposal Requirements.
Responses to this Request are required to be submitted to X. Each responsive proposal must
include the following:

          (a)     Price: the proposed all-inclusive fee for the services contemplated herein,
                  including all costs and expenses. The price must constitute the maximum
                  dollar amount that will be charged to the Town for the completed Project, as
                  described herein.

          (b)     Firm Qualification and Relevant Experience: describe, in sufficient detail, the
                  proposer’s qualifications and experience with similar projects. Provide
                  references and contact information for at least three similar projects.

          (c)     Project Team: identify, in an organizational chart format, the personnel to be
                  assigned to the Project. Submit resumes for key personnel. Include a
                  statement of commitment for non-substitution of key personnel without the
                  Town’s prior written consent. Describe in sufficient detail, local and home
                  office support facilities, and resources the proposer will provide to complete
                  the Project. Response to this paragraph should emphasize personnel
                  resources, in-house expertise, facilities, and services.

          (d)     Proposed Approach: describe, in sufficient detail, how the proposer plans to
                  satisfy the requirements of the Project.

          (e)     Project Schedule: outline the proposer’s schedule to complete the Project.

          (f)     Actions: summarize any disciplinary actions, suits, by or against the proposer
                  or related entities during the past three years.

          (g)     Insurance Coverage. Insurance coverage will be required in accordance with
                  the Town’s standard requirements (below). Each bidder should thoroughly
                  examine such insurance requirements and shall include appropriate proof of
                  insurance certificates with its proposal. Failure to meet the insurance
                  requirements may result in cancellation of the bid acceptance.

          (h)     Clearly Marked: proposal must be clearly identified as “Assessment of
                  Financial Resources for the Town of Alta.”

          (i)     Length: the proposal shall not exceed 10 pages.

All proposals shall become the property of the Town. Any proprietary information contained in
the proposal must be clearly marked and delineated. The Town may release any information
contained in the proposal that is not marked and delineated as proprietary following execution
of a contract for services.

6.     Insurance Requirements.


                                               3
The contracting party shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract insurance
against claims for injuries to persons or damage to property which may arise from or in
connection with the performance of the work hereunder by the contracting party, his agents,
representatives, employees or subcontractors. The cost of such insurance shall be included in
the contracting party’s bid.

7.     Identification of Anticipated Potential Problems.

The proposal also should identify and describe any potential problems or recommendations
with respect to the Project.

8.     Evaluation Criteria and Selection Process.

Proposals submitted in response to this Request will be reviewed and ranked by a selection
committee (consisting of the Town Administrator, Town Clerk, and Mayor) on the basis of
several factors, including but not limited to, bid amount, qualifications and relevant experience,
project team, proposed approach, project schedule, ability to perform and references.

9.     Terms of Contract.

The successful applicant will be required to enter into a written agreement with the Town to
provide the services contemplated herein. The Town staff, working with the selected proposer,
will negotiate the agreement. All provisions of the agreement will be in compliance with
applicable laws, rules and regulations.

10.    Suspension of Process, etc.

The Town reserves the right to reject any and all responses to the Request, to waive the
requirement set forth in this Request, and to accept any proposal deemed to be in the best
interest of the Town, subject to legal requirements. Response to the Request is at the
proposer’s sole risk and expense, and the Town shall not be liable for any cost associated with
preparation by any party of any proposal submitted in response to this Request. Although the
Town anticipates selecting one of the responding proposers, there is no guaranty that any
responding proposer will be selected or that the Project will be commenced or completed. The
Town also reserves the right to cancel award of this contract at any time before execution of
the contract by both parties if cancellation is deemed to be in the Town’s best interest. In no
event shall the Town have any liability for the cancellation of the award.

11.    Special Important Information / Links.

The following information is provided:

           (a)    The last 3 approved fiscal year budgets, with year-end results.

           (b)    Town Code: https://codelibrary.amlegal.com/codes/altaut/latest/alta_ut/0-
                  0-0-1

           (c)    Town Fee Schedule: https://townofalta.com/town-services/fee-schedule/


                                                4
         (d)    Licenses, Permits & Applications: https://townofalta.com/town-
                services/licenses-permits-applications/

         (e)    Contact Person. For further information, contact X

12.   Proposal Submission Instructions.

         (a)    Proposals shall be submitted the Town via email to X at X by Xpm (MST) on X,
                X 2021.

         (b)    Proposals shall be delivered to the Town via email in .pdf format no larger
                than 30 megabytes in size.

         (c)    Please do not include links to external websites.




                                             5
