Memo to the Town Council

From John Guldner and Town Attorney Polly Samuels McLean

Re: Remaining Zoning Issues

Date: March 4, 2021

The main discussion at our February meeting was concerning exemptions to the setback requirements in
the UABOPZ. Below is the updated language regarding that section and the building permit section:

Exemption for Improvements on Forest Service Land:

(2) p.10, 10-1-7: Building Permit Required, proposes to delete paragraph B, replace with following
language:
        However, Structures on US Forest Service property which are not Buildings and are for Commercial
        Recreation ski area operation or campground operations, such as lift towers, signs, avalanche control
        devices, snowmaking equipment, picnic tables and fire pits, do not require a building permit so long as
        and only if, such Structures comply with requirements of the regulatory bodies having jurisdiction,
        including US Forest Service , US Army Corp Engineers, State Engineer’s Office, Utah Division of
        Water Rights, Salt Lake Valley Health Department and the Salt Lake City Division of Public Utilities
        and such approval, if required by the regulatory bodies having jurisdiction, shall be submitted to the
        Building Official prior to the Structure being put in place. Written notification of the installation or
        construction of any Structure, whether or not an approval from the regulatory bodies is required, must
        be given to the Town Administration prior to the Structure being put in place or any site preparation
        for the structure.

(3) p.17, 10-6A-9: Special Regulations: G. Stream Regulations: (3), proposed language is below:
        (3) Notwithstanding (1) and (2) above, on US Forest Service property, Structures which are not
        Buildings and are for Commercial Recreation ski area operation or campground operations, such as
        lift towers, signs, avalanche control devices, snowmaking equipment, picnic tables and fire pits, are
        exempt from these setbacks so long as and only if, such structures comply with requirements of the
        regulatory bodies having jurisdiction, including US Forest Service , US Army Corp Engineers, State
        Engineer’s Office, Utah Division of Water Rights, Salt Lake Valley Health Department and the Salt
        Lake City Division of Public Utilities and such approval, if required by the regulatory bodies having
        jurisdiction, shall be submitted to the Building Official prior to the Structure being put in place.
        Written notification of the installation or construction of any Structure, whether or not an approval
        from the regulatory bodies is required, must be given to the Town Administration prior to the
        Structure being put in place or any site preparation for the structure.


We left in the other points in case Council wishes to discuss.

(Below is from the February 4, 2021 memo) Staff has reviewed the remaining 11 and recommends
discussion, no change, or has made the changes based on further discussion. Numbering from old
memo is the same. My new comments are in red.

Council to Discuss:


                                                                                                                1
Purpose Statements:

(1) p.1, 10-1-2: Purpose: propose adding a sentence recognizing the vital link between environmental
and economic prosperity. Needs work, specificity on the link/connection between environment and economic
prosperity. Council should discuss this item with the proposed purpose statement amendments for the UABPOZ.

(new) P.31, 10-6E-2. This is a similar discussion as #1 regarding the purpose of the UABPOZ to include a link to
environmental protection and economic prosperity and balancing development for residential and commercial
needs. Proposed language is:

A. Preserve visual and aesthetic qualities, recognizing the link between environmental protection and economic
prosperity;

B.       Protect public health and safety by protecting the scenic beauty, sensitive natural environment including
the quality of the Little Cottonwood watershed;

C.       Conserve wildlife habitat, protect aquifer recharge areas, minimize disturbance to existing trees and
native vegetation and destabilization of fragile soils and wetlands, while balancing development for residential and
commercial needs.



Staff Has Made Suggested Amendments:

(5) p.27, 10-6D-4: Permitted, Prohibited Uses: proposes to add conferences to permitted uses and
possibly “take out” liquor sales. We will check with state liquor license requirements. Further clarification
on this suggestion was requested. Based upon this comment I have added conference and its definition as a
permitted use and a liquor store as part of the retail commercial definition.

(8) p.36, 10-7-21: Technical Review Committee, amends language Re: UFA fire inspections to cover any
future agency changes. UFA may be involved, discuss/amend to ensure future operational options are covered.
We will refer all inspections to the fire marshal. Current that is the UFA.

(11) p.49, 8-3-6: Private Wastewater Disposal, G.2. proposes language to apply to existing dwellings if
renovating, remodeling or other needs requiring holding tanks being replaced. Additional discussion and
definition were requested for appropriate language. Staff recommends making this change and has updated the
language to reflect that when a building is renovated to the degree that Building Code requires the building to
meet current standards, the tank must also be updated.



Staff Recommends No Amendment to Code:

(4) p.26, 10-6D-2: Purpose, proposes to add allowance for employee/owners’ quarters in the Base
Facilities zone, which otherwise prohibits residential uses. Further discussion, explanation was desired. This
was put in to reflect the current and desired condition of existing employee and owner housing in the commercial
establishments in the base facilities zone, which prohibits standalone residential. This was not added in because it
is already allowed for employee housing units. (“Designated employee housing units, as described in section 10-
6D-7 of this article). Council could discuss if they wish to allow additional housing in the zone.

(6) p.27, 10-6D-4: Permitted, Prohibited Uses, proposed to add a clarifier to prohibited uses. Further
clarification on the clarifying language was requested. Staff recommendation is to leave this as is. It is easier to
administer if specific.

                                                                                                                       2
(7) p.30, 10-6D-14: Special Regulations: F. proposes to add language to clarify that no existing vegetation
shall be removed, unless that vegetation is non-native. Discuss question on how this condition could be
determined. Staff recommendation is to leave this as is.

(9) p.38, 10-8-4, Repairs, Alterations, Deterioration and Demolition re: noncomplying structures,
proposes to add opportunity for extension of time to complete a noncomplying structure if lack of
completion is through no fault of the owner. Discuss how to determine, judge whether fault of the owner or
not, should this be included? We discussed non-conforming uses and structures at length at our January 8, 2020
work session. Staff does not recommend this change as it is difficult to make this determination and Council is
amending to give amble time to make improvements.

(10) p.38, 10-8-4: (3)(b), proposes to allow 3 years instead off 2 to submit plan for rebuild, has been
discussed and I thought agreed upon. It was questioned that 3 years is too long to submit a plan. We discussed
this specific question at our January 8, 2020 work session. Council consensus was 2 years for plan submittal and 5
years for reconstruction. Councilmember Bourke pointed out that 10-8-6 only allows 1 year to start restoration
after calamity and suggested amending it to 3 years. I have changed it to 2 years to be consistent with the
direction of council of allowing 2 years to submit plans, which would be the start of restoration.




                                                                                                                     3
