                                                                                                  1


          PURCHASING/PROCUREMENT POLICY FOR THE TOWN OF ALTA
                           Adopted April 14, 2021

                                             ARTICLE I
                                     GENERAL PROVISIONS
A)      Scope and General Provisions:
        1)      The purpose of these rules is to ensure that purchases made and services
contracted are in the best interest of the public and acquired in a cost effective manner.
        2)      No purchase shall be made and no encumbrance shall be incurred unless funds
sufficient to cover the purchase or encumbrance have been budgeted and are available within the
approved budget.
        3)      The Town reserves the right to reject or cancel any and all invitation for bids,
request for proposals, or other solicitations, in whole or in part. No bidder shall have any right,
legal or equitable, or claim against the Town for any expense or cost incurred by them in the
preparation or submission of their bid or proposal, which is rejected, regardless of the reasons for
the rejection.
        4)       The Town expressly reserves the right to waive minor or slight irregularities in
a bid or proposal which in the judgment of the Purchasing Agent are in the best interest of the
Town. The decision of the Purchasing Agent on irregularities on a bid or proposal shall be final
and conclusive and shall not create any right to bidders. Further, the Town reserves the right to
amend, modify or waive any provision in a request for proposal or invitation for bids.
        5)      The following contract clauses should be made part of any contract with the
Town: the unilateral right of the Town to order, in writing, change in the work within the scope
of the contract and changes in the time of performance of the contract; variations occurring
between estimated quantities of work in a contract and actual quantities; and suspension of work
ordered by the Town.
        6)      This policy shall not prevent the Town from complying with the terms and
conditions of any grant, gift, or bequest that is otherwise consistent with law.
        7)      When procurement involves the expenditure of federal assistance funds, the Town
shall comply with applicable federal law and regulations.

B)     Definitions
       1)      “Change order” means a written alteration in specifications, delivery point, rate of
delivery, period of performance, price, quantity, or other provisions of a contract, upon mutual
agreement of the parties to the contract.
       2)      “Contract” means any Town agreement for procurement of supplies, services, or
construction.
       3)      "Invitation for Bids" or “Sealed or Competitive Bids” means all documents,
whether attached or incorporated by reference, used for soliciting of competitive sealed bids for
procurement of construction type services, supplies and equipment.
       4)      "Request for Proposals" (RFP) means solicitation of proposals for procurement of
services, supplies and equipment where cost is not the sole factor.




April 8, 2021 (v.2)
                                                                                                      2


                               ARTICLE 2
       THE PURCHASING AGENT AND PURCHASES AND SERVICES GENERALLY

A)      The Town Clerk is hereby appointed and designated as the Town of Alta purchasing
agent. The Purchasing Agent may designate another staff member to undertake all or some of the
duties of the Purchasing Agent set forth herein or appointed to him or her. The Purchasing
Agent shall be responsible to make procurements, solicit bids and proposals, enter into and
administer contracts, and make written determinations for the Town.

B)      When the Purchasing Agent determines it to be most advantageous to the Town, an
Invitation to Bid can be used in lieu of a RFP, and a RFP may be used in lieu of a request for
informal quotes or any other process which is more formal than required.

C)      Town of Alta purchases are not subject to sales tax. For vendors requiring documentation
of tax-exempt status, a TC-712G Exemption Certificate for Governments and Schools may be
obtained from the Town Clerk’s Office.

D)      Ongoing Service Contracts are contracts that renew annually for services such as:
cleaning services, alarm systems, snow removal, and furnace maintenance etc. Ongoing service
contract renewals will not last more than a five-year span. Following the conclusion of a five-
year term, contracts exceeding a total of $25,000 per year ($125,000 over five years) will solicit
proposals using a Request for Proposals.

                                     ARTICLE 3
                          EXCEPTIONS TO PURCHASING POLICY

A)     Purchases made through the cooperative purchasing contracts administered by the
State Division of Purchasing and General Services pursuant to Utah Code 63G-6a-2105, or other
governmental entity which has applied its purchasing and procurement policies.

B)      Purchases made from a single-source provider. The Purchasing Agent may procure
from a sole source when after conducting a good faith review of available sources, determines
that no other sources are reasonably available, or that competition would be unlikely to produce
other acceptable offers. The Purchasing Agent shall put that determination in writing for the file.

C)     Purchases required during an emergency, i.e., an eminent threat to the public’s health,
welfare, or safety. However, as much competition as practical should be obtained; and, such
purchases should be limited to amounts necessary to the resolution of the emergency.

D)      Professional services. Contracts for Professional Services are usually contracts for
services performed by an independent contractor, in a professional capacity, who produces a
service predominately of an intangible nature. These include, but are not limited to auditing,
banking, insurance, legal, engineering, accountant, architectural consultant, artist, appraiser and
similar professional consultation. Professional services may be procured as negotiated based on
demonstrated competence and qualification and at fair and reasonable price. Procurement of
professional services must be approved by the Purchasing Agent.



April 8, 2021 (v.2)
                                                                                                   3


E)     Payment of routine expenditures. The Purchasing Agent is authorized to approve
payments for routine expenditures such as utility bills, internet/telecommunication bills, leases,
and payroll related expenses, provided that such expenditures are referenced in the then approved
budget. No quotes or request for proposals are needed.

F)     Auction, Closeout, Bankruptcy Sales: The Purchasing Agent may determine that
supplies, materials, or equipment can be purchased at any public auction, closeout sale,
bankruptcy sale or similar sale and that it will be at below the market cost in the community.

F)      Specialized Contracts which are not adapted to award by competitive bidding or
proposals, such as 1) contracts for additions to, repairs and maintenance of equipment owned by
the Town, which may be more efficiently done by a certain person or firm; 2) contracts for a
particular brand of equipment or product which is uniquely suited to the town's needs by reason
of training of its personnel or compatibility with existing equipment or to assure standardization
or a continuation of supplies or services, or 3) contracts for the purchase of used equipment or
items that are unique as to quality, condition and price.

                                     ARTICLE 4
     PURCHASES NOT REQUIRING SEALED/COMPETITIVE BIDS INCLUDING RFPs
                     (price is not the sole determining factor)

        A)      The request for proposal process should be used, as determined by the Purchasing
Agent, when there may be a need for price and service negotiations, when the skill and expertise
of the offer needs to be evaluated, when costs are secondary to the product or service sought and
when subjective elements as quality, warranty, experience, etc. are more important than
awarding to the lowest cost vendor who meets minimum requirements.

        B)    Purchases costing less than $5,000 in total, shall not require bids of any type.
(Purchases shall not be artificially divided so as to constitute a small purchase under this
section.)

        C)      Purchases costing more than $5,000 but less than $25,000 in total, shall
require, at a minimum, two informal bids (price quotations) by phone, in person, email, or other
electronic means. Email is generally preferred. Alternatively, but not required, a Request for
Proposal can be performed.

         D)      Purchases over $25,000
                 1)      All procurements of services and goods in an amount over $25,000 shall
         be solicited through a Request for Proposals.

                 2)      All procurements of services and goods in an amount over $25,000 shall
         be ratified by the Town Council in an open meeting. Additionally, accumulated "Change
         Orders" outside the original budget amount which would overall increase a previously
         council approved contract by $25,000 for contracts of $250,000 or less or more than 10%
         for contracts over $250,000 shall be granted by Town Council in an open meeting.




April 8, 2021 (v.2)
                                                                                                   4


                  3)     Notwithstanding 1) and 2) above, in the event the Town Council, as part
         of its review and approval of the town budget, has approved a specific line-item
         appropriation for the supplies or services, including the purchase of capital assets or
         “equipment type” items, the contract may be awarded by the Purchasing Agent,
         regardless of amount, as long as the approved line-item appropriation is not exceeded.

         E)    Use of Requests for Proposals.
               1) It is recommended, but not required, that public notice of the Request for
Proposal be given a minimum 5 calendar days prior to the date set forth therein for closing the
request. The public notice shall include posting on the Town of Alta website. The public notice
may include posting on the State of Utah Division of Purchasing Courtesy Posting Services.

                2) Award shall be made to the person whose proposal is determined, to be the
most advantageous to the Town, taking into consideration price and the evaluation factors set
forth in the request for proposals. Price is not the sole determining factor.

                                      ARTICLE 5
                 INVITATION FOR BIDS OR SEALED OR COMPETITIVE BIDS

A)       Recommended use of Invitations for Bids.
        1)       An Invitation for Bids is appropriate to use when cost is the major factor in
determining the award of a procurement and all vendors meet minimum requirements.
        2)      An Invitation for Bids may be used when determined by the Purchasing Agent to
be in best interest of the Town when the Town is capable of specifically defining the scope of
work for which the services, supplies and equipment are required or when the Town is capable of
establishing precise specifications defining the commodity required.
        3)      If the Purchasing Agent determines an Invitation for Bids is not in the best interest
of the Town, the requirements in Article 4 above shall be followed.

B)      Mandatory sealed/competitive bids.
        1)      The Town shall follow the procedures contained in Utah Code 11-39-101 et seq.
for the contracts for the construction of building improvements, or public works projects,
specifically: a) for building improvements (the construction or repair of a public building or
structure) for the year 2003, $40,000; b) for public works projects (the construction of a park or
recreational facility; or a pipeline, culvert, dam, canal, or other system for water, sewage, storm
water, or flood control but does not include: the replacement or repair of existing infrastructure
on private property), for the year 2003, $125,000. For both building improvements and public
works projects, for each year after 2003, the amount of the bid limit for the previous year, plus
an amount calculated by multiplying the amount of the bid limit for the previous year by the
lesser of 3% or the actual percent change in the CPI during the previous calendar year. c)
Follow the requirements for noticing such bids in Utah Code 11-39-103. d) Contracts for the
construction of building improvements, or public works projects shall follow the below
procedures, unless the requirements for 11-39-101 et seq. are stricter, in which case the stricter
requirements shall apply.




April 8, 2021 (v.2)
                                                                                                       5


B)      Invitation to Bid Procedures. Where formal bidding is utilized, the lowest responsive and
responsible bidder shall be determined through use of the following procedures:
        1)       The invitation shall include a description and all contractual terms and conditions
applicable to the procurement.
        2)       Public notice of the invitation for bids shall be given at least 5 days prior to the
date set forth therein for the opening of bids. The notice may include posting on the Town of
Alta website and the State of Utah Division of Purchasing Courtesy Posting Services.
        3)       Bids shall be opened publicly in the presence of one or more witnesses at the time
and place designated in the invitations for bids. The amount of each bid and any other relevant
information, together with the name of each bidder, shall be recorded. The record and each bid
shall be open to public inspection.
        4)       The Contract shall be awarded to the lowest responsible bidder whose bid meets
the requirements and criteria set forth in the invitation for bids. In determining “lowest
responsible bidder”, in addition to price, the town council shall consider:
1. The quality and availability of supplies or services offered;
2. The ability, capacity and skill of the bidder to perform the contract or provide the supplies,
personnel or service required;
3. Whether the bidder can perform the contract or provide the supplies promptly, or within
the time specified, without delay or interference;
4. The sufficiency of the bidder's financial resources and the effect thereof on his ability to
perform the contract or provide the supplies or services;
5. The character, integrity, reputation, judgment, experience and efficiency of the bidder;
6. The quality of the bidder's performance or breach of contractual obligations with public
and private agencies on previous orders or contracts for the town or others;
7. Litigation by or against the bidder, either pending or threatened, where claim is made
that the bidder provided or furnished materially defective workmanship or materials to
the town, or failed to substantially comply with bid specifications or contract terms and
conditions;
8. The previous and existing compliance by the bidder with laws and ordinances relating to the
contract or service;
9. The ability of the bidder to provide future maintenance and service, where such
maintenance and service is essential;
10. Possession or ability to obtain all necessary town and state licenses either at the time
of bid or before doing business with the town.

        5)      Pre-qualification of Bidders for invitation to bid: The Town may require pre-
qualification of bidders. Upon establishment of the applicant's qualifications, the Purchasing
Agent shall issue a qualification statement. The statement shall inform the applicant of the
project for which the qualification is valid, as well as any other conditions that may be imposed
on the qualification. If the Purchasing Agent does not qualify an applicant, or later is no longer
qualified, written notice to the applicant is required, stating the reasons the prequalification was
denied, and informing the applicant of the right to appeal the decision within five business days
after receipt of the notice. Appeals shall be made to the Town Council.

C)     Correction or withdrawal of inadvertently erroneous bids before or after award, or
cancellation of awards or contracts based on such bid mistakes, shall be permitted. After bid



April 8, 2021 (v.2)
                                                                                                    6


opening no changes in bid prices or other provisions of bids prejudicial to the interest of the
Town of fair competition shall be permitted. All decisions to permit the correction or withdrawal
of bids or to cancel awards or contracts based on bid mistakes shall be supported by a written
determination made by the Purchasing Agent.

D)       Change orders may be approved by the Purchase Agent provided the total contract
price, including the change order, is within the original budget amount.

E)     Bonds. The Purchasing Agent shall have the authority to require a bid bond or a
performance bond in such amount as it shall find necessary to protect the best interests of the
town. The form and amount of said bond shall be described in the notice inviting bids.

                                            ARTICLE 6
                                            APPEALS

A)      Protests to the bidding process shall be submitted to the Purchasing Agent in writing
within five business days after the aggrieved person knew or should have known that it was the
Town's intent to award the bid or contract. Protests in regard to specifications of an invitation
for bids or request for proposals shall be submitted, in writing, prior to opening of bids or
proposals even if it is shorter than the five business days. Protests must specifically state the
facts which constitute error in the award and the desired remedy.

B)      The purchasing agent shall promptly issue a written decision regarding the protest, if it is
not settled by a mutual agreement. The decision shall state the reasons for the action taken and
inform the protestor, contractor, or prospective contractor of the right to appeal to the Town
Council in writing within 5 days.

C)       The Town Council shall be the final appeal authority.

                                        ARTICLE 7
                             ETHICS IN PUBLIC CONTRACTING

A)      No person involved in making procurement decisions shall have personal investments in
any business entity which will create a substantial conflict between their private interests and
their public duties; receive any compensation or gift from any bidder or proposer; or have any
other conflict of interest.

B) All persons making procurement decisions are responsible for reviewing and complying
with Utah Code 67-16, Utah Public Officers' and Employees' Ethics Act.




April 8, 2021 (v.2)
