Alta Town Council

Staff Report


To: Town Council
From: Chris Cawley, Assistant Town Administrator
Re: Community Renewable Energy Agency Board Appointments
Date: June 30, 2021
Attachments:


Background

The Alta Town Council has acted on two occasions to remain active participants in the
Community Renewable Energy Program (C-REP). In 2019, the council passed a resolution
establishing the goal of achieving 100 percent of Alta’s electricity supply from renewable
sources and securing eligibility to take part in C-REP. In March of 2021, the council
adopted a resolution approving the Interlocal Agreement (ILA) establishing an agency
that will develop the C-REP and defining a governance structure for the agency.

Community Renewable Energy Agency Board Appointments

Each member of the Community Renewable Energy Agency (the Agency) needs to
appoint a primary and an alternate member to the board of directors that will govern
the Agency. The primary board member must be an elected official, and the alternate
member can be a staff person or elected official. The mayor can make appointments to
the board and Mayor Sondak can serve in this capacity, but he is open to town council
members filling the primary board member seat for the Town. We have discussed that I
can fill the role of alternate board member and plan to be available during what are
likely to be time-consuming monthly board meetings, although if another council
member is eager for the opportunity, I would defer.

The Agency will hold its first meetings in July of 2021, on July 1st at 8:30 AM, and on July
13th at 10 AM. A Town of Alta board member needs to attend this meeting with a signed
copy of the appointment letter as well as a signed copy of the ILA establishing the
agency. The July 1st meeting is a preliminary meeting where an electronic meetings
policy, meetings bylaws, and other procedural matters will be considered. It is
anticipated that the July 13th meeting will be the first more substantive (and longer
duration) meeting.

The Alta Town Council should discuss during the June 30th meeting if any of its members
would like to serve in this capacity, and we can produce the appointment letter
immediately afterward in order to deliver it to the July 1st meeting the next day. Please
feel free to contact me by phone or email if you are interested and/or if you have
questions about C-REP, the Agency, and the prospect of serving on the board.




                                                                                            2
