Alta Town Council
Staff Report: Fire and Ignition Source Restrictions

To: Town of Alta Mayor and Council
From: Polly McLean, Town Attorney and Cameron Platt, Legal Associate
Date: June 30, 2021 Special Council Meeting

Two ordinances are before the council about restricting fire ignition sources, open flames and fireworks.

Ordinance #2021 – O – 3_ “Fire Restrictions” (Permanent Codified Restrictions)
This ordinance enacts a new section of code restricting fire and ignition sources from June 1 through
October 31 throughout the entire town.
    • Prohibits “open flames of any kind . . . except campfires built within the facilities provided for
        them in improved campgrounds, picnic areas or permanently improved places of habitation.”
    •   Prohibits smoking, “except within an enclosed vehicle or building, a developed recreation site or
        while stopped in the center of an area of at least ten feet in diameter that is barren or cleared to
        mineral soil or is covered by concrete or asphalt.”
    •   Prohibits the sale or- use of fireworks.
    •   Contains exemptions from the above restrictions for permitted activities including fireworks
        shows, avalanche control, or firefighting.


Ordinance #2021 – O – 4_ “Restriction of Fireworks” (Annual Restriction based on conditions)
This ordinance is required for two reasons: 1) Utah law prohibits cities from banning fireworks during
four holidays; and 2) the current year’s drought and fire risk requires additional restrictions.

Utah prohibits fireworks except for dates around July 4, July 24, New Year’s Eve, and the Chinese New
Year. During those specified dates, a town may not restrict fireworks unless it passes an ordinance
finding that an existing condition, or historical conditions, create a hazardous environmental condition
of fire risk.

Section I of this ordinance complies with state law prohibiting fireworks during July 4, and July 24
throughout the town. We will, in accordance with State Code requirements, have to adopt a similar
ordinance every year in order to ban fireworks even during the holidays.
Section II implements Stage 1 restrictions until October 31, 2021 to match Utah State Fire Restriction
Order (issued June 10, 2021). USFS Order effective June 18, 2021 limits fires to fire structures within a
designated area and prohibits smoking unless in a specified area.
