                                  ORDINANCE #2021– O –7
            ORDINANCE ENACTING TITLE 6 CHAPTER 3 PERMIT PARKING

         WHEREAS, within the Town of Alta (“Alta”) certain attractions exist that draw vehicle
traffic seeking parking in nearby areas for on street parking. This increase in demand creates a
severe shortage of on street parking for residents, businesses, employees, and visitors;

       WHEREAS, the Alta Town Council (“Council”) finds that enactment of a parking permit
program will Promoting the tranquility, safety, health and welfare of the municipality and
surrounding areas;
         WHEREAS, the Council finds that regulating parking within Alta is necessary to allocate
parking use for residents, businesses, employees, and visitors; to increase safety by reducing
traffic congestion and facilitating snow removal or other road maintenance; to reduce the adverse
environmental impacts on Alta created by excessive air and noise pollution from vehicles; and to
encourage the use of mass transit, carpooling and other alternative modes of transportation to
reduce vehicle traffic and parking;
        WHEREAS, in addition to this Ordinance, the Town Council will adopt a resolution with
details of the permit scope and update the fee schedule for pricing;
    NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE TOWN OF ALTA TOWN
COUNCIL OF, UTAH, THAT:
       SECTION I: Title 6 Chapter 3, as set forth in Exhibit A, is hereby enacted.

       SECTION II: This ordinance shall go into effect upon posting pursuant to Utah Code
Ann.§ 10-3-711(1)(b)(ii) and Utah Code Ann.§ 10-3-712.


      PASSED AND APPROVED by the Town of Alta Town Council, Utah, this _____ day of
____________ in the year 2021.


                                             TOWN OF ALTA




                                             Harris Sondak, Mayor

ATTEST:


Piper Lever, Town Clerk
                                          EXHIBIT A


                                    TITLE 6 CHAPTER 3
                               PERMIT PARKING ORDINANCE


6.3.   PERMIT PARKING
6.3.1. Application of the Code
This Section is applicable on all public streets and public parking facilities within the Town of
Alta as now constituted or as subsequently amended by annexation, agreement, or disconnection.
6.3.2. Definitions
    As used in this section:
Parking Plan means the written program designated and published by the Town to administer
permit parking.
6.3.3. Parking Designation Authority
The Town of Alta will designate the permit area, process, and effective dates in consultation with
the United States Forest Service and the Utah Department of Transportation.
6.3.4. Parking Area and Dates
1) The parking area consists of any public property within the control of the Town of Alta.
2) Permitted parking is required from November 1 through May 31 each year unless altered and
   announced by the municipality.
6.3.5. Regulations Not Exclusive
The parking regulations established by this section are not all encompassing, and additional
regulations may be established by posting permanent or temporary signs stating the additional
regulation imposed, or by law enforcement directing traffic during periods of heavy traffic
volume or during periods of emergencies, or during special events as designated by the
municipality.
6.3.6. Parking Permit Issuance
1) The number of permits available and the manner for allocating permits will be approved by
   the Mayor.
2) The Town may contract with third party entities for the issuance, administration, monitoring
   and collection of revenues to administer the parking permit program.
3) Issuance of a permit shall not guarantee or reserve to the holder thereof an on-street parking
   space within the designated permit parking area.
4) Issuance of a permit shall not release the permit holder or vehicle operator from complying
   with Utah or Town of Alta traffic codes, or the Parking and General Regulations in Alta
   Town Code 6-1-3.
5) Parking permits are not transferrable unless specifically authorized by the Parking Plan.
6.3.7. Parking Permit Fees
Fees associated with a parking permit shall be established by the municipality by resolution of
the Town Council.
6.3.8. Permit Parking
1) A motor vehicle associated with a valid parking permit as provided for in the Parking Plan
   shall be permitted to stand or be parked in the permit area for which the permit has been
   issued without being limited by parking regulations or prohibitions solely applicable to
   vehicles without a permit.
2) All other motor vehicles associated with a parking permit shall be subject to citation and
   impoundment under Alta Town Code.
6.3.9. Revocation of Permit
Each person receiving a parking permit under this section shall, as a condition of receiving and
utilizing the same, agree to comply with the regulations established for the designated area by the
municipality. Any violation of these regulations by a permit holder shall subject the holder to a
forfeiture of the permit on the following basis:
1) Upon conviction of a violation of 6.3.11, the court may suspend or revoke permits issued
   under the Parking Plan.
6.3.10. Presumption of Identity
For any vehicle on any street or public parking facility which is parked in violation of the
regulations of this Title, it shall be presumed that the registered owner of the vehicle parked the
vehicle in violation of this Title, or permitted others to park his vehicle in violation of this Title
and the registered owner is responsible for the violation and for the fine or civil penalty imposed.
6.3.11. Unlawful Activities Penalty
1) It is unlawful and a violation of this section, unless expressly provided to the contrary herein,
   for any person to stand or park a motor vehicle or to cause the same to be done contrary to
   the parking regulations established pursuant to the Parking Plan. Such violation shall be
   punishable as a civil or criminal penalty at the Town’s discretion.
2) It is unlawful and a violation of this section for a person to falsely represent themselves as
   eligible for a parking permit, or to furnish false information in an application therefor to the
   Town of Alta or its agents. Such violation shall constitute a class B misdemeanor.
3) It is unlawful and a violation of this section for a person holding a valid parking permit
   issued pursuant hereto to permit the use of such permit on a motor vehicle other than that for
   which the permit is issued. Such conduct shall constitute an unlawful act and violation of this
   section, both by the person holding the valid parking permit and the person using the permit
   on a motor vehicle other than that for which it is issued. Such violation shall be punishable as
   a civil or criminal penalty at the Town’s discretion.
4) It is unlawful and a violation of this section for a person to copy, produce or otherwise bring
   into existence a facsimile or counterfeit parking permit in order to evade parking regulations
   applicable in the Town of Alta permit parking area. Such violation shall constitute a class B
   misdemeanor.
