    MAYOR                                                                               TOWN OF ALTA
  HARRIS SONDAK                                                                          P.O. BOX 8016
                                                                                          ALTA, UTAH
  TOWN COUNCIL                                                                            84092-8016
   CLIFF CURRY                                                                     (801) 363-5105 / 742-3522
  ELISE MORGAN                                                                         FAX (801)742-1006
 MARGARET BOURKE                                                                            TTY 711
  SHERIDAN DAVIS




September 6, 2021

From: Mayor Harris Sondak
To: Alta Town Council
Re: Briefing memo on the main issues on the agenda for the September 8, 2021 Town Council work
session and meeting


Because I cannot attend the upcoming town council meeting, I have taken the time to prepare this briefing
memo. I address the main issues coming before the council at the meeting. Let this serve as my mayor’s
report for this meeting.

Business License Study

I think that the council should reject simple assertions of problems of validity and methodology with the
recent Zions business license cost study. The town council should, I think, act consistently with the results
of the study; it should not just back into or rationalize a desired outcome. Accounting operates by
generally accepted principles and procedures and CPAs have rigorous professional responsibilities (see:
https://www.aicpa.org/research/standards/codeofconduct.html). While there is some room for
interpretation in accounting, accounting is more akin to archeology than to architecture – more discovery
and less invention.

I don’t think the town council can continue the status quo given that the Zions study is the best
information we have about costs. The consultant – Zions – has clear expertise and a top-notch reputation.
If I were seeking a base level business license in Alta, at this point, I would conclude that the old, higher
price has no present basis other than the preferences of the individuals who comprise the town council,
and I would claim that the town is violating Utah law against charging me more than the costs of
administering the license. Furthermore, as a tax payer in Alta I would object strenuously to repeating the
study and wasting funds that amount to 1/3 of the business license revenues on that repeat study.

I support Option A in the staff report because I think it strikes a fair balance given the costs created by the
various entities as determined by Zions while taking note of sales tax generation and other benefits
businesses bring to the town. Option B strikes me as a rather large and sudden increase, especially
because police calls vary from year to year so big changes are not likely to achieve desirable levels of
reliability. I asked Jen to develop Option C as another possible approach that charges no entity more than
it has been paying, but it fails to meet the budget the town council previously adopted. The council should
note that any arrangement that yields less than the revenues they included in the approved 2022 budget
will require an adjustment in that budget and thus implies additional subsidy of costs of providing services
to businesses from some other revenue source.


                                                       1
Overall, this issue is small and does not involve a lot of money, either to the town or to the businesses that
are involved, and is not worth dwelling on further, it seems to me. I urge the town council to make a
decision and spend its energy on other more important issues at hand, as I have directed the staff to do
so.

Capital Projects Plan

Thanks to our careful planning and management, conservative budgeting, and ski seasons that have led to
ample sales tax revenues, the town has the opportunity as well as the need to allocate funds to capital
expenses. It is important to note that, again this year, more than is usual, our revenues for the upcoming
ski season are uncertain. Like last year, we face this problem because of the pandemic. So, while we have
to allocate money to capital projects so as not have too much cash in our general fund, unspent capital
projects funds could be used for operations if the need were to arise. (This is especially pertinent for the
money being earmarked – not spent – for a new community center.)

Here are my comments on the particular items:

    •   Items 1 – 8, which are for our Marshals Office and basic communications and IT capabilities, are
        not really discretionary. We need to proceed with these projects, in a number of cases because of
        state or other mandates.

    •   Items 9, 10, and 14 are matters of workplace safety. Employees have incurred risks and have
        experienced injury in clearing the roof of the community center. I think we have moral obligations,
        if not also liability risks, that require us to act.

    •   Items 11 – 13, 15, 17 - 19 are somewhat discretionary in the sense that they can be (further)
        postponed. However, delay is likely unwise and pound foolish. If we want a useable paved parking
        area, to be able to continue working without interruption, to preserve an historical structure, and
        to maintain our community center and office, these projects should go forward. We should not
        scrimp on maintenance; remember the Surfside Condo!

    •   Item 16 will allow continued remote participation and viewing of town council meetings even
        after we resume meeting in person. We should provide this service, which has become quite
        popular in the last year and a half.

    •   Item 20 is a) facilitating the possibility moving forward on an often-expressed desire in our
        community and b) basically a place to park the rest of the money.

Implementation of Permit Parking

Parking appears three times on the agenda, once in the work session and twice in the meeting itself.

I’ll discuss agenda item 5 (Ordinance 2021-O-7) first. We need an ordinance so that the Town of Alta can
initiate and legally operate a permit parking system. As you will notice, the ordinance leaves much
unspecified; that structure is intentional. The ordinance creates a framework but does not indicate fees,
numbers of permits, allocation rules or methods, etc. Once we have the ordinance in place, we then can
proceed to discuss the specifics. That’s where item #6 comes in – the presentation from the consultants.

During the work session, I request that the town council members start by assuming what the consultants


                                                      2
will demonstrate in their subsequent presentation – that demand for parking space for both daytime use
and overnight parking currently exceeds supply, which is constrained by the physical number of spaces in
Alta outside ASL’s Special Use Permit. Then I ask the council to decide the extent to which they want the
number of permits and other policies to be subject to council decision or to a decision by the mayor. In
particular, please consider if you like this provision in the draft Ordinance:

        6.3.6. Parking Permit Issuance
        1) The number of permits available and the manner for allocating permits will be approved by the
        mayor

If the council does not like this provision, the appropriate amendments to the draft ordinance should be
adopted during the regular meeting. (I am sure that both I and future mayors will be happy to share the
blame for whatever system the town adopts with the town council, but time is short so if the council
wants to reserve this decision for itself, it will have to come to its conclusion at the October meeting.)
Fees, by the way, must be voted on by the council (parking fees will come up in a subsequent meeting and
are not included currently in agenda item 12).

Opposing the Olympics in LCC

I hope that the idea behind agenda item 9 is not at all controversial. The reason to bring this issue to the
town council now is because of the UDOT DEIS and the pending decision by UDOT. In my comments I
submitted to UDOT on the DEIS, I wrote:

        “[I]t was clear to all parties during planning for the 2002 Winter Olympics that no events should be
        held in Little Cottonwood Canyon. I cannot support any proposal that increases the likelihood that
        events would be held in the Canyon if the Olympics return to Utah unless definite and fully reliable
        prohibitions against holding events there are included in the proposal. Despite current sentiment
        against holding events in the Canyon, given climate change it is likely that lower elevation resorts
        soon may not remain viable venues for competitive winter sports and pressure to hold events in
        Little Cottonwood Canyon may be intense.”

I think we are at serious risk that LCC will be a venue despite current denials. Snowbasin’s base elevation is
6,391 feet with a summit elevation of 9,350. They had to use every inch of the elevation for the downhill
race (in fact they had to increase their vertical drop by extending their lifts right up to the ridgeline to
make the course fit). You can refrigerate a bobsled track, but not a downhill or Super G course so given
climate change trends organizers may well be looking for an alternative venue for those events. The only
high elevation ski area in Utah that has enough vertical for a downhill race is Snowbird. I think a gondola
exacerbates this risk and as part of an Olympics plan could lead to an aerial connection to Park City
because it will provide another means (and direction) for egress.

I persuaded Salt Lake County mayor Jenny Wilson to oppose Olympics in LCC, too. She was quoted in the
SL Tribune as saying (https://www.sltrib.com/news/environment/2021/09/01/sl-county-city-reject/):

        “I oppose any Olympic events up the canyon,” said Wilson, who serves on Utah’s Olympic bid
        committee. “I do think it’s good to ask UDOT to put it in, as Mayor Sondak suggests, as a line in the
        sand. We should not hold Olympic events up this canyon.”

Let’s get ahead of this problem and say no, early, right now. We will let UDOT and the public know that we
do not want the Olympic rings on Mt. Superior!


                                                      3
