                             Memorandum
Date:        October 8, 2021

To:          Town of Alta

From:        Christopher Bender, PE – Fehr & Peers
             John Gard, PE, RSP1 – Fehr & Peers

Subject:     Town of Alta Parking Plan

                                                                                            UT21-2292



Introduction
There are approximately 1,892 total parking stalls within the Town of Alta limits that are owned by
the United States Forest Service (USFS). Most of those stalls are on Alta Ski Area’s USFS special
use permit. To better manage their parking supply, Alta Ski Area is implementing a paid parking
plan that begins in November 2021. The paid parking plan would require ski area visitors to pay
$25 to park in designated Alta Ski Area parking lots on weekends and holidays (with no cost to
park on weekdays). Alta Ski Area’s parking plan is important to the continued operation of the
resort but is also driving the need for a Town of Alta parking plan.

The Town of Alta plans to manage 247 parking stalls within the town along the north side of Utah
State Route 210 (SR 210) during the upcoming winter. The Town managed parking areas include
parking stalls located on land owned by the Town of Alta, USFS property outside the Alta Ski Area
special use permit, and USFS property within the ski area USFS permit. The Town’s management
plan would issue permits to park within the Town of Alta managed parking area, and the parking
permit system would be operational seven days per week, rather than on just weekends and
holidays like the Ski Area. The Town of Alta contracted with Fehr & Peers to consult with the town
to develop a parking plan that preserves and maintains parking throughout the Town of Alta.

To assess the parking needs of town land uses, Fehr & Peers worked with Town staff to distribute
a survey to Town of Alta business owners, lodges/short-term rentals, and residents. A copy of the
survey, as well as a brief overview of the survey results, is attached in the Appendix.




             2180 South 1300 East | Suite 220 | Salt Lake City, UT 84106 | (801) 463-7600
                                      www.fehrandpeers.com
Town of Alta
October 8, 2021
Page 2 of 11




Permit Cost and Allocation Recommendation
Parking Supply and Demand

Using the data collected through the survey, Fehr & Peers and the Town of Alta developed a
parking allocation plan to allot parking permits to various land uses throughout the town. A
parking supply of 247 total stalls was assumed; this includes 114 stalls in the North Grizzly parking
area, 48 stalls in the parking area across from the Snowpine lodge, and 85 stalls in the North
Flagstaff parking area.

The parking survey led to the conclusion that the Town land uses (including residences, local
businesses, and lodges/short-term rentals, and excluding pure Alta Ski Area visitation) would have
a peak parking demand of 396 spaces in the afternoon during peak weekends and holidays.
When considering day-use recreational user (e.g., backcountry skiing, etc.) demand, the overall
parking demand would be even greater. Thus, it is readily apparent that the 247 spaces to be
managed by the Town is not sufficient to serve the expected demand. Hence, the town and Fehr
& Peers have worked cooperatively to develop this parking permit allocation plan.

Figure 1 shows the number of spaces in various parking areas throughout Alta and the entity that
would manage each area. Note that parking management along the highway between the
Wildcat Ramp and the Deep Powder House is to be determined. The map also notes the location
of the five lodges in the town.
                                                                                                                                      NORTH GRIZZLY
                                                                                                                                           114 stalls
                                                                                                                                      (60 to be given to
                                                                                                                  SNOWPINE              Alta Ski Area)
                                                                                                                   48 stalls




                                                                   NORTH FLAGSTAFF
                                                                          85 stalls
                                                                                                                                             SOUTH GRIZZLY
                                                                                                                                                  133 stalls



                 HIGHWAY BETWEEN WILDCAT                                                               Snowpine
                 RAMP & DEEP POWDER HOUSE*                                               Rustler        Lodge
                                                                                         Lodge




                                                                                                                               ALBION
                                                                   Alta                                                        585 stalls
                                                                  Lodge
                                                  WILDCAT RAMP
                                                      40 stalls                       SOUTH FLAGSTAFF
                                                                                          135 stalls

                                              Goldminer's
                                             Daughter Lodge
Alta Peruvian
    Lodge


                                                                                                                                               LEGEND

                                                                                                                                                 Alta Ski Area
       WILDCAT
        752 stalls
                                                                                                                                                 Town of Alta




                                                                                                                                                     Figure 1

                                                                                                                                      Study Area
Town of Alta
October 8, 2021
Page 4 of 11



Parking Permit Cost

Fehr & Peers and Town staff recommend that all single-day permits cost the same as the Ski Area
parking reservation fee: $25. The single-day permits need to cost a comparable amount to the Ski
Area parking reservation to prevent Ski Area patrons from relying on the limited supply of town-
managed parking (should it be priced less expensively).

Fehr & Peers and Town staff also recommend that seasonal permits should cost $250 per season,
which runs from mid-November through mid-May. This price was chosen to reduce the “per
night” cost to those who park in Alta on a nightly basis. Assuming that a seasonal parking permit
user would park in Alta approximately 50 times per ski-season, that would equate to
approximately $1,250 in single-day parking permits. Providing seasonal permits at $250 each
reduces that cost by 80%, while still discouraging Alta’s various constituents from over-purchasing
parking permits.

Parking Allocation

Ski Area Parking

An allotment of 60 total permits is being granted to Alta Ski Area in-kind for Town’s ability to
manage parking within a defined portion of the Ski Area’s Special Use Permit with the USFS. This
agreement is outlined in the Alta Ski Area/Town of Alta Memorandum of Understanding
(ASA/TOA MOU).

Residential Permits

To manage the supply of existing parking stalls, Fehr & Peers and Town staff recommend allowing
each residence to purchase a single seasonal permit. To accommodate a second vehicle at a
residential unit, a single-day permit would need to be purchased (subject to availability). The
number of seasonal parking permits for residences should be capped at 47 total permits, which
is the total number of residences that are projected to rely on town-managed parking (per the
survey). Proof of residency in Alta would be required to purchase a seasonal residence permit.

Residential Caretaker Permits

To accommodate a limited number of full-time caretakers of Alta residences with parking, four
total permits are recommended to be set aside as well. Similar to the allotment of seasonal
permits for residences, proof of residence as a caretaker would be required before the permit is
issued.

Local Business Parking

Local businesses responded to the survey and were accounted for in the parking allocation. The
businesses that were found to need parking in town-managed areas include the following: the
Alta Post Office, Friends of Alta, the Shallow Shaft restaurant, ACE, and the four Deep Powder
Town of Alta
October 8, 2021
Page 5 of 11



House locations. Fehr & Peers and Town staff recommend that each of these locations be allowed
to purchase up to two permits. That would result in 16 total permits allocated for local
businesses.

By allocating 16 permits to local businesses, the total number of permits in the program will
slightly exceed the number of available spaces. This is intentional, as the parking survey indicated
that these businesses would only use 12 parking spaces during the peak weekend and holiday
afternoon period and are likely to use very few spaces during overnight hours.

Short-Term Rental Parking

The majority of short-term rental companies indicated that their rental units currently provide
sufficient parking for visiting guests. One short-term rental property, comprised of two separate
units, has no parking on-site. Therefore, one permit per rental unit, up to two total permits,
should be set aside for this use.

Lodge Parking

As outlined previously, the survey results indicate that the lodges have historically used the most
parking within town managed areas. A portion of that use is attributed to guest parking while the
remainder consists of employee parking. Fehr & Peers and Town staff recommend allowing up to
100 total permits to be purchased by the lodges (inclusive of both guests and employees) for
parking throughout the winter ski season. Notably, the Peruvian Lodge stated in the parking
survey that they do not require any parking in Town managed parking areas since they maintain
their own parking area which is adequate for their needs. Therefore, no permits are recommended
to be allocated for the Peruvian Lodge. The remaining four lodges, the Alta Lodge, the Rustler
Lodge, the Snowpine Lodge, and the Goldminer’s Daughter Lodge would each be allocated up to
25 permits. It will be each lodge’s responsibility to determine how best to allocate those permits
among guests and employees.

Single Day Permits

To provide a short-term parking option, Fehr & Peers and Town staff recommend setting aside a
portion of parking for short-term single day parking permits, which could be valid for 24-hour
and overnight use. A minimum of 20 total permits would be set aside for these single day
permits. While the previously described seasonal permits were recommended to be only made
available to those who demonstrated a consistent need for parking, these permits would be made
available to the general public for purchase. If seasonal permit demand by residences, short-term
rentals, and lodges is less than the allocations prescribed here, then the unused permits would be
added to the single-day permit pool.
Town of Alta
October 8, 2021
Page 6 of 11



UTA Ride Share Permits

Fehr & Peers and Town staff recommend setting aside the remaining two total permits for Utah
Transit Authority (UTA) transit vehicle use. It is also recommended that the permit cost be waived
for these two permits given the environmental and indirect benefit to other users (i.e., additional
parking) that the transit vehicles provide.
Town of Alta
October 8, 2021
Page 7 of 11




Summary of Recommendations
The Town’s management plan would issue permits to park within the Town of Alta managed
parking area, and the parking permit system would be operational seven days per week, rather
than on just weekends and holidays like the Ski Area. The Town of Alta contracted with Fehr &
Peers to consult with the town to develop a parking plan that preserves and maintains parking
throughout the Town of Alta. Table 1 summarizes the parking allocation recommendations.

Table 1: Parking Permit Allocation & Costs Outline
User                  Permits Total Cost per
              Units                           Notes
Group                 per Unit Permits Permit

                                                         Permits are granted to Alta Ski Area in exchange for Town’s ability
Alta Ski
               n/a       n/a         60       In-kind    to manage parking within a defined portion of the ASA Special Use
Area
                                                         Permit with USFS (per ASA/TOA MOU).
Residents       47        1          47        $250      Additional permits will need to be purchased from the daily pool
Residential                                              Permits allocated to full-time caretaker units with long-term
                4         1          4         $250
Caretakers                                               seasonal occupancy.
                                                         After all other permits are accounted for, this allotment will result
Local                                                    in a slight oversell (i.e., more permits than total parking spaces).
                8         2         16*        $250
Businesses                                               However, not all business hours overlap with highest demand
                                                         parking period.
Short-
                                                         Allocation of parking for short-term rental properties that have no
term            2         1          2         $250
                                                         on-site parking.
Rentals
                                                         This allocation allows the Alta, Rustler, Snowpine, and Goldminer’s
Lodges          4        25         100        $250
                                                         Daughter lodges to purchase up to 25 permits each.
                                                     Remainder of permits managed by Town of Alta. This supply can
Single-day                                           increase (up to a total of 50 permits) based on available supply of
               n/a       n/a         20      $25/day
Permits                                              parking on shoulder of SR-210 between the Wildcat Ramp and the
                                                     Alta Lodge.
UTA
                2         1          2        Exempt     Utah Transit Authority (UTA) rideshare van permits.
Rideshare
                           Total   247*
* Only 12 stalls are projected to be used by local businesses during peak periods. Total permits reflect this peak usage.
Source: Fehr & Peers.


To match the single-day parking reservation cost in the Ski Area, each single day use permit is
recommended to cost $25. To reduce the cost burden on people who regularly need to park
within the Town of Alta managed parking areas, each seasonal permit (aside from the portion
being provided to the Ski Area) is recommended to cost $250. It is also recommended to waive
the seasonal permit fee for UTA Rideshare use to encourage car-pooling among employees.
Appendix: Alta Parking Survey
Survey Data Collection
The Town of Alta parking plan seeks to balance the parking needs of existing land uses within the
town: lodges, local businesses, short-term rental properties, private residences, the Alta Ski Area,
and non-resort recreation visitors.

Notably, 100% of all surveyed local businesses and lodges responded to the survey, and 86% of
all residential property owners surveyed responded as well. Altogether, the project team had a
sample size of 57 total responses to learn from. The bar chart in Figure 2 shows, from left to right,
the reported parking demand throughout weekdays, weekends, and holidays during different
times of the day.

                                   300

                                   250
      Surveyed Demand [Vehicles]




                                   200

                                   150

                                   100

                                   50

                                    0




                                         Figure 2: Parking demand in town managed parking areas.

As shown in the chart, holidays were shown to have the highest parking demand. During all time
periods, weekdays, weekends, and holidays, the peak parking demand was observed to occur on
afternoons between noon and 4 PM. The chart also indicates that some respondents appeared to
treat the survey as a statement of their desired parking supply instead of historical parking use
during a typical ski winter. This chart shows that tendency since the surveyed weekday parking
demand was nearly equal to weekend and holiday parking demand. Due to this tendency, and for
the purpose of this analysis, Fehr & Peers analyzed the peak parking demand period: Holiday
afternoons.
The data gathered through the survey pointed to three key trends:

        1.   All private property parking was reported to be full during peak parking periods on
             weekends and holidays,
        2.   Parking demand within Town Managed areas was reported to exceed supply by
             about 23%; more specifically, the demand for parking was reported to be 305 spaces
             on holiday afternoons, when only 247 spaces are available in town managed areas,
        3.   An additional 93 parking stalls within the Ski Area have been used by residents,
             lodges, and local businesses on holiday afternoons.

Figure 3 shows the parking demand in public parking areas by type. Notably, lodge parking
(between employees and guests) requires approximately half of all parking being used in public
parking areas. The ski area also requires an additional 15% just for employee and service vehicle
use, before recreational guest parking is accounted for.

                                            Other
                      Local Businesses
                                             3%
                             8%

                     Alta Ski
                      Area*
                       15%
                                                                       Lodges
                                                                        49%




                      Residences 24%

   Figure 3: Weekend/holiday peak parking demand in public parking areas by use type.

The five lodges in the Town of Alta include the following properties: Alta Lodge, Alta Peruvian
Lodge, Goldminers Daughter Lodge, Rustler Lodge, and Snowpine Lodge. Notably, the Alta
Peruvian Lodge has a substantial amount of on-site parking, which accounts for all their parking
demand through the winter. At each of the other four lodges, over 100% of the on-site parking
was reported to be used. In addition to the 150 parked vehicles throughout the town of Alta,
another 44 vehicles were reported to typically park in ski area lots. These 194 total parking stalls
represent parking demand created by 373 fully occupied guest rooms (during the holidays) as
well as 348 on-site lodge employees during a typical ski season workday. Based on the results of
the survey, since lodge parking demand comes out to be less than 1 space per guest room, it
appears that lodge guests have historically been one of the larger groups to divert to transit
modes of travel to get to and from Alta.

Proposed Parking Plans
Fehr & Peers coordinated with the Town of Alta to present various parking management
programs to the Alta Town Council on September 8th,2021.

Option 1 was an unrestricted parking permits option that would allow an unlimited number of
permits could be sold to the public and to business owners.

Option 2 would limit the number of parking permits proportionally to the total supply of parking
spaces within the town managed parking area, either with or without a percentage of
overbooking permits. A portion of the town parking supply would be set aside for seasonal
permit users, and another portion would be set aside for single-day permit users.

Option 3 sought to provide a context-specific permit system to meet the anticipated demands
from various land uses. In this option, parking permits would be available to different land uses at
different rates. The Alta town council voiced support for this option.

Following the September 2021 Alta Town Council Meeting, Fehr & Peers and the Town of Alta
considered a variety of context-specific allocation concepts and fee programs. The
recommendation outlined in this memorandum allocates permits between different classes of
Alta parking users in a manner more consistent with Option 3 only two different rates, is more
consistent with Option 2.
   Town of Alta Parking Survey

Alta Ski Area will implement paid parking at its parking areas on weekends and holidays during the
upcoming 2021-2022 ski season. As part of the Alta Ski Area paid parking program, certain parking
areas in the Town of Alta commonly used by commuting employees, non-overnight business patrons,
and other Alta visitors will be subject to the Alta Ski Area parking reservation and fee requirement. The
Town of Alta is also designing its own paid parking permit management system for the 2021-2022 ski
season to complement Alta Ski Area's paid parking program.

The Town will continue to manage overnight parking and potentially a limited amount of day-use
parking in designated areas along the north side of SR-210.

The purpose of this survey is to help the Town understand historic and potential future parking
demand in parking areas under its control. Click here to see a map that shows a potential arrangement
of how the Alta Ski Area and Town of Alta parking areas will be organized next winter.

* 1. Please identify your property.

Property Name

Address



   * 2. Which of the following best describes your property?
          Lodge

          Local business

          Private residence

          Short-term rental property

          Other (please specify)




                                                                                                            1
   * 3. During the winter, how many on-site parking spaces are on your property?




* 4. Who is permitted to use on-site parking at your property?




   Town of Alta Parking Survey

Parking Demand in Alta
The following questions will help us understand parking demand associated with your property during
winter ski season weekdays, weekends and holidays. Holidays during the ski season include
Christmas, New Years, Martin Luther King Jr. Day, and Presidents Day.

Click here to see a map that shows a potential arrangement of how the Alta Ski Area and Town of Alta
parking areas will be organized next winter.

5. How many vehicles associated with your property typically park on-site at your property at each of the
following times during the winter ski season?
                                 Weekday                         Weekend                    Holiday

     Midnight-4AM


        4-8AM


       8AM-Noon


       Noon-4PM


       4PM-8PM


     8PM-Midnight




                                                                                                            2
6. How many vehicles associated with your property typically park in town managed areas at each of the
following times during the winter ski season?
                                 Weekday                      Weekend                        Holiday

      Midnight-4AM


          4-8AM


        8AM-Noon


        Noon-4PM


        4PM-8PM


      8PM-Midnight



7. How many vehicles associated with your property typically park in Alta Ski Area parking lots at each of the
following times during the winter ski season?
                                 Weekday                      Weekend                        Holiday

      Midnight-4AM


          4-8AM


        8AM-Noon


        Noon-4PM


        4PM-8PM


      8PM-Midnight



* 8. Which of the following user groups park vehicles associated with your property during weekdays,
weekends, and holidays? (Check all that apply.)

                                Weekdays                      Weekends                      Holidays

 Residents

 Residential caretakers

 “Live-in” business
 employees

 “Non-live-in” employees
 who occasionally or
 routinely stay overnight
 in Alta

 Overnight lodging guests

 Other (please specify)




                                                                                                                 3
   Town of Alta Parking Survey

Lodge Questions

9. How many rental rooms are there at your property?




10. What percentage of rooms are occupied on a typical ski weekend?

   0%                                      50%                                    100%




11. What percentage of rooms are occupied during a peak ski holiday period? Holidays during the ski season
include Christmas, New Years, Martin Luther King Jr. Day, and Presidents Day.

   0%                                      50%                                    100%




12. How many guests can your lodge accommodate?




13. How many employees are onsite during a typical ski season workday?




   14. Do you have any employees that reside on the property during the winter ski season?
        No

        Yes (how many?)




                                                                                                             4
15. Where do fleet/service vehicles that are associated with your lodge typically park during winter ski season
weekdays, weekends, and holidays? How many park at each location?
                                   Weekdays                   Weekends                       Holidays

 On-site at your property

  Town of Alta managed
          areas

 Alta Ski Area parking lots




   Town of Alta Parking Survey

Reserved Parking in Alta
We would now like to ask you some questions about how your business, employees, customers,
and/or guests may respond to the Town of Alta's pay-to-park permit system.

Although the details of the system have not been finalized at this time, the general concept is to
charge a daily, short-term multi-day, or seasonal fee to park in town managed parking areas.

   * 16. If your guests and/or employees drive personal vehicles to the Town of Alta, do you anticipate their travel
   and parking behavior will change in response to the Alta Ski Area and the Town of Alta paid parking programs?


          No

          Yes (please elaborate)




   * 17. Will you ask your guests and/or employees to modify their travel and parking behavior?
          No

          Yes (please elaborate)




                                                                                                                   5
   * 18. Do you currently use rideshare vans or similar organized transportation to your property, or have you
   considered doing so? If so, please give details.
        No

        Yes (please specify)




   * 19. Did you previously participate in a survey from Alta Ski Area about parking? If so, how many parking
   spaces did you report that your property would likely use?
        None                                                    Three

        One                                                     Four

        Two

        More than four (please specify)




        Did not participate in a previous survey



20. We welcome any additional comments about these survey topics.




* 21. Who is the primary point of contact at your property that we could reach out to with additional questions?
What phone number is best to reach them?

Name

Phone Number




                                                                                                                   6
