From:           Hooper
To:             Piper Lever
Cc:             Margaret Bourke; Cliff Curry; Sheridan Davis; emorgan@gmail.com; John Guldner; Chris Cawley; Margaret
                Bourke
Subject:        Alta Resident Parking
Date:           Tuesday, October 12, 2021 1:57:39 PM
Attachments:    IMG_1746.jpeg
                IMG_1747.jpeg


Member of Alta Town Council-

Paying over $22,000.00 a year in town property taxes, it is just wrong not to provide at lease 2
auto spaces specifically for town residents in an permitted “overnight" parking area close to
the Summer Rd.

Space during the day should be available for all to use but only residents with a permit in the
front dash be allowed to park in this area overnight especially after dark. Simple clean signage
below works, but only works with strict enforcement backed by stiff fines. Make it $250.00 a
violation and tow at own expense.

Any of this pay to park talk is only as good as enforcement!

If the town allows only 1 space per residence it will surly curtain family and guest livelihood.
It will have a huge impact on property values.

Thanks for your time,

Kim & Paul Hooper
401-864-1544

8620 S. Hawk Hill Rd
Grizzly Gulch, Alta Ut
From:           Whitney McReynolds
To:             Piper Lever
Subject:        Public Comment on Town of Alta Parking
Date:           Tuesday, October 12, 2021 2:11:49 PM


Hi Piper - below is our public comment for the Town Council meeting to be held on October
13, 2021.

The Fehr & Peers study does not allow for sufficient parking permits for Residences/Cabin
owners who currently park in the North Grizzly Lot.
For homes with multiple families residing, it is not feasible to have only one parking pass.
Most properties in the Albion Basin and Summer Road areas are used by more than one family
at the same time during the ski season months. Our family is a good example - with my
parents and our family of four living there. We also have guests and additional family come
visit!
As Alta taxpayers, residences and cabin owners should have priority when it comes to parking.
Cabin owners have a historic use of parking in the Grizzly lot - and they don't have only one
car or family, with no guests.
100 spots designated for lodges seems excessive. Lodges have the ability to minimize the
number of guests renting cars or employees parking up the canyon. Residences can only
minimize to a certain extent.
Given that we are Alta taxpayers (and Alta ski pass holders), this should merit having at least
two to three parking permits per residence with the option for a guest pass.

Thank you - we appreciate the opportunity to comment.
Whitney and Dave McReynolds
John and Leslie Reynolds
From:              Larry Williams
To:                Piper Lever
Subject:           Fwd: Parking
Date:              Tuesday, October 12, 2021 2:41:00 PM


Piper,

Can you please submit this version with typos corrected.

Thanks,

Larry

Sent from my iPhone

Begin forwarded message:


         From: Larry Williams <lwilliams@redstonevt.com>
         Date: October 12, 2021 at 4:28:36 PM EDT
         To: plever@townofalta.com
         Subject: Parking


         ﻿Hello Piper,

         I would like to comment on the Town’s proposed parking plan for cabin owners.

         My view is that one seasonal pass per home is not sufficient and does not
         adequately protect the value and utility of the private homes that have historically
         depended on the Grizzly Gulch lot for parking. It seems to me that we
         homeowners are being inequitably treated and unduly impacted. It also seems the
         the Town is dedicating a disproportionate share of available parking to the lodges
         at the expense of homeowners.

         I am asking that the Town reconsider its plan and allow for a minimum of 2
         parking spaces per house and also provide a discounted rate for guest passes.

         Thanks in advance for submitting my comments.

         Larry Williams

         Sent from my iPhone
Jen Clancy

From:               Dan Colangelo <woodman859@comcast.net>
Sent:               Tuesday, October 12, 2021 3:38 PM
To:                 Jen Clancy
Cc:                 keri Gardner
Subject:            Comments for 10/13 TOA Meeting




We would like to start by voicing our appreciation for the hard work and effort that went into formulating a plan under
tough conditions, on a tight time line.
Unfortunately, the Parking Plan, as presented, does not meet the needs of our family and we do not believe it will
ultimately be successful.
Hopefully, our reasoning can be fully detailed and discussed in a more appropriate, less time sensitive, forum.
We do find it to be interesting, however, that in a Town which to a large degree has been paved for parking,
homeowners and residents are left to scrounge for spots.
We strongly urge the Mayor and the Council, hopefully with the participation of the future Mayor, to reconsider the
underlying terms of the proposed MOU and to rethink the Parking Plan and Permit allocation.
Thanks for your time,
Dan Colangelo and Keri Gardner




                                                            1
