                         MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
        This Memorandum of Understanding (“MOU”) is made as of [DATE] (the Effective
Date”) by and between the Alta Ski Lifts Company (“ASL”), a Utah corporation, and the Town
of Alta (“TOA”), a municipality incorporated in Utah. ASL and TOA are also individually
referred to as “Party” and collectively as “Parties.”

                                           RECITALS

       Whereas, TOA manages parking areas on the North side of Utah State Road 210 that
include land owned by TOA and National Forest System lands (“NFS”) over which the Utah
Department of Transportation maintains an easement from the United States Forest Service
(“USFS); and

       Whereas, ASL possesses a special use permit with the USFS that includes vehicle
parking areas east of the Snowpine lodge (Grizzly and Albion lots), parking areas on NFS lands
on the South side of State Road 210 between the Rustler and Alta Lodge and parking areas in the
Wildcat Parking area; and

       Whereas, demand for vehicle parking has increased significantly to the point that
available space is not sufficient, particularly on weekends, holidays, or fresh snow days; and

        Whereas, ASL and TOA have historically worked jointly to allocate and manage parking
for safety, snow removal, and access to property within the town; and

       Whereas, ASL and TOA desire to manage parking for various users, including guests,
residents, businesses employees and operators, and other visitors; and

         Whereas, ASL has stated it intends to implement a parking permit program charging fees
in its parking areas on weekends and holidays; and

       Whereas, historically allowing unrestricted parking necessitated occasionally and
temporarily closing the state road into the TOA due to no available parking, resulted in unlawful
parking and unsafe parking in avalanche areas, and required significant resources of the TOA
Marshal’s Office; and

        Whereas, implementing managed parking cooperatively between ASL and TOA will
consolidate parking needs into designated areas, facilitate parking management, including snow
removal, overnight parking, and reduce visitor parking problems, and encourage carpooling and
the use of public transit.

      NOW THEREFORE, in exchange for the consideration described below, and the mutual
promises, covenants, and conditions described below, the Parties hereby agree as follows:

                                                1
                                         AGREEMENT

       The Recitals set forth above are hereby expressly incorporated into and made a part of
this MOU.

      1.     PURPOSE To facilitate parking management and address community needs,
TOA and ASL agree to designate all parking on the North side of State Road 210, from the
UDOT garages to the East end of the current overnight parking in Grizzly Gulch, as TOA
managed parking. Allocation of vehicle parking within this designated area will be managed by
the TOA.

       2.      TERMS

            a. ASL agrees to assign control within its USFS Special Use Area of the North side
            of State Road 210 from the Snowpine lodge to the end of the current overnight
            parking area in the Grizzly lot, to utilize as TOA managed vehicle parking. A map
            depicting the managed area is incorporated by reference as Attachment A.

            b. TOA agrees to allocate ASL sixty (60) parking permits in the area described in
            Section 1. Assignment of a vehicle parking allocation does not guarantee a physical
            location to park a vehicle. ASL agrees not to designate more than sixty (60) vehicle
            parking users in this area on any one day or consecutive days during the Operating
            Period.

            c. The TOA Marshal’s Office agrees to patrol ASL parking lots and assist with
            public safety issues and safety related parking issues, consistent with historical
            practice. This is also contingent on an ordinance and agreement executed between
            ASL and TOA pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 41-6a-214.

      3.     CONTINGENT APPROVAL This MOU is subject to the USFS authorizing
TOA to implement a permit parking program in a special use permit.

       4.    TERM The term of this MOU will commence on the November 1 and continue
through May 31, 2021 (the “Initial Term”).

        Upon expiration of the Initial Term, the parties shall meet and confer no later than August
1 of the year of expiration to determine whether to continue this MOU. If the parties agree to
continue this MOU, it shall extend for an additional one (1) year period (the “Renewal Term”)
from November 1 through May 31 of each subsequent year.

       As used in this MOU, the Initial Term, Renewal Term shall be referred to as the “Term.”
The dates from November 1st through May 31st shall be referred to as an “Operating Period.”
                                               2
        5.     NOTICE OF CHANGES Both parties shall notify the other party if it intends on
making material changes to its parking plan that will affect the parking space of the other party at
least 30 days prior to any such change taking effect.

       In addition, ASL will identify to TOA the individuals or parties to which it allocates the
60 TOA parking permits (described in paragraph 2(b) above) by December 1 of the Operating
Period and advise TOA of any changes to that allocation at the time of the change.

        6.      TERMINATION Either party will have the right to terminate this MOU in the
event the other party fails to perform any of the terms and conditions specified herein, on
condition that the responsible party has been notified in writing by the non-breaching party and
that the responsible party has not corrected the failure within fifteen days (15), or such additional
time as is reasonably necessary, of its receipt of written notice.

        In addition, either party may terminate this MOU with 30 days written notice for any
other reason than a failure to perform as described above in this paragraph.

       7.      MISCELLANEOUS

           a. Indemnity. The TOA and ASL covenant and agree to indemnify, hold harmless
       and defend each other from all fines, suits, claims, demands, and actions of any kind and
       nature related to the terms of this MOU and each party’s operations hereunder and agree
       to assume all the risk in the operation of its activities hereunder, and each party is solely
       responsible and answerable in damages for any and all accidents or injuries to persons or
       property in each party’s respective parking areas.

          b. No Assignment Without Prior Consent. The covenants and agreements
       contained within this MOU shall apply to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties
       and shall not be assigned without the prior written consent of both parties.

          c. Paragraph Headings. The paragraph headings as to the contents of particular
       paragraphs listed only for convenience and are in no way to be construed as part of such
       paragraphs or as a limitation in the scope of the particular paragraph to which they refer.

          d. Contact Information/Communication. Any correspondence or communication
       may be issued to the below-listed address or phone number of the parties:

            If to ASL:

            Michael R. Maughan, General Manager
            P.O. Box 8007
            Alta, Utah 84092
            Telephone No.: 801-799-2265

                                                  3
         Email: mikem@alta.com

         If to TOA:

         Chris Cawley, Assistant Town Administrator
         PO Box 8016
         Alta, Utah 84092
         Telephone No.: 801-363-5105
         Facsimile No.: 801-742-1006
         Email: ccawley@townofalta.com

         e. Modification. This MOU will constitute the entire agreement between the parties
      hereto, and it may not be amended except in a written document signed by each party.
          f. Severability. In the event that any one or more of the provisions contained herein
      shall, for any reason, be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, such
      invalidity, illegality or unenforceability shall not affect any other provisions of this MOU,
      but this MOU will be construed as if such invalid, illegal or unenforceable provisions had
      never been contained herein, unless the deletion of such provision or provisions would
      result in such a material change so as to cause completion of the transactions
      contemplated in this MOU to be unreasonable.
          g. Entire Agreement. This MOU and any attached exhibits or attachments hereto
      constitute the entire agreement between the Parties and supersedes all other prior
      writings, communications, and understandings.
         h. No Waiver. Any failure of a Party to enforce that Party’s rights under any
      provision of this MOU shall not be construed or act as a waiver of said Party’s right to
      enforce any of the provisions contained herein.
          i. Counterparts. This MOU may be executed in multiple counterparts, each of
      which shall be deemed an original, and all of which together shall constitute a single
      instrument. A signature sent by facsimile or via email shall have the same force and
      effect as an original signature.
       8.     GOVERNING LAW. This MOU will be governed by and construed in
accordance with the laws of the state of Utah.

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Memorandum of
Understanding on the day and year first above-written.

                                            TOWN OF ALTA


                                            Harris Sondak, Mayor

                                                4
ATTEST:


Piper Lever, Town Clerk




                          Alta Ski Lifts Company



                          By:_______________________________________
                                Name



                          Its:
                                 Position




                             5
6
