From:           Bryce Ipson
To:             Jen Clancy; info@friendsofalta.org
Subject:        Permitted parking
Date:           Tuesday, December 7, 2021 11:33:56 PM


Hello,
My name is Bryce and I’m an avid Backcountry skier, who also has a pass for Alta and
Snowbird.
I am aware of the issue of parking that causes headaches for the staff and skiers at Alta. This
plan is just passing on the issue to the backcountry community.

The areas that will be affected by this plan are public lands(excluding the 144 acres north of
LCC) and implementing this plan will limit the public's access. Many spots in Grizzly,
Flagstaff, Wildcat and Albion will be reserved for resort skiers who are not using the
backcountry areas.
Those backcountry skiers who do reserve parking for these areas will be paying a fee that goes
to Alta Ski resort, whose services they don’t use(Lifts, staff, etc.)

 This system will make it inconvenient or even obsolete to dawn patrol. Often times on busy
weekends, I’m up and touring before the resort is open and down before most people are
taking their skis out of their car. Paid parking will hinder the ability of those who must ski
early, and those who come in the afternoon to use only one spot. There will not an efficient
way to rotate parking spots.

These backcountry areas are also the most common place for beginners to learn, in fact this is
the primary location where I learned to ski in the backcountry. KBYG and avy courses take
place in LCC. A parking fee will add an additional step and expense for safety classes to take
when they have a small number of open spots throughout the year. Mine and my family’s fear
is that this will push people into higher avalanche danger areas, where they are more likely to
get into accidents.
It's also not feasible to make reservation for Backcountry skiers a week in advance. With so
many variables it’s unsafe to force people to commit to a day. A lot can change in 48 hours.

There has been an increase in the SLC population and a rise in Backcountry equipment
purchases. If we don’t plan for Backcountry users, we will suffer the consequences. It’ll cost
thousands in rescue services, not to mention it could cost lives. Last year we lost 7 people(6 in
the SLC area) to avalanches, 10 people buried and 46 people caught.  I’m afraid that this plan
is dismissing the backcountry lovers in our community and their safety. Dismissing us will
result in further loss of life and cost to the Utah Community.

I wish to see a solution proposed that either encourage carpooling such as free parking to those
with multiple people in the car or open backcountry-only parking.  If it must come to fees,
have them benefits the USDA or Utah Avalanche Center. This truly feels like the care of the
natural resources are being put second to the profits of the investors.

I would also like to make a comment during the zoom meeting during the public comment
time.


Best Regards,
Bryce Ipson
From:            Tyler Rudd
To:              Jen Clancy
Subject:         RE: Paid parking permit
Date:            Wednesday, December 8, 2021 11:43:20 AM
Attachments:     image001.png
                 image002.png


Ohh yes!

Good Morning,

It has been brought to my attention that Alta Ski Lifts is reviewing and planning to decide on their
plan for permitted parking soon. As a backcountry skier and frequenter of LCC I wanted to reach out
and voice my opinion on the matter.

I am worried about having to pay to access public lands in the upper LCC. Upper LCC is home to
some of the best, most accessible backcountry terrain in Utah. Not only that, but it also provides
access to grizzly gulch, what is known as the premiere spot for beginner backcountry skiers and a
safe haven on high avalanche danger days. Charging $25 to access these lands will result in pushing
more people into more dangerous terrain and already crowded “safe zones”. Grizzly is home to
many Avy 1, KBYG and rescue courses; it’s a playground for learning how to stay safe in the
backcountry. Another place I frequent on high avalanche danger days is the Emma ridge line, which
would also be affected by paid, permitted parking. This year’s snowpack is setting up to be
dangerous like last years, and I hate to think that hundreds more backcountry skiers will be pushed
into other, less safe zones as a result.

This brings me to my next point. Backcountry skiing is growing exponentially, especially in the
Wasatch, and this needs to be addressed. There was a uptick in backcountry ski equipment
purchases from 2019-2020, at a rate of 76% and this upward trend is not slowing down. Many
people moved here from all over the US for the backcountry skiing. I would hate to have access to
upper LCC restricted. Also, it is not feasible to try and plan a backcountry tour a week in advance
(like one would need to for reservations). There is too many variables to predict that far out to let
you determine what a user is going to ski a week out; snowfall, wind, avalanche danger, etc.

Another thing to think about, SLC is home to a massive (and growing) population. A large majority of
that population works your typical 9-5 jobs, meaning that if we want to ski during winter, it must be
before work. I understand parking won’t be allowed before 8am, which is the time most dawn
patrollers are getting ready to ski down, back to their car and go into work. Sure, there’s other
options like BCC and lower LCC, but those zones already have parking lots filled up by 5-6am most
days. You can only shove so many people in one zone before it becomes dangerous and ruins the
experience for everyone….something ASL certainly understands. Restricting parking before 8am
everyday is a massive burden on backcountry skiers.

Beyond these issues, I am concerned about this money being funneled into ASL’s pockets. If I am
paying for parking, it should be contributed to something worthwhile, like upkeep on the road,
maintaining trails or funding towards more public transportation, not further lining investors
pockets. It should go back to the forest service honestly because that is what we are using is public
lands. It SHOULD NOT be another revenue source for ASL. The money could fund more busses, or
smaller shuttles for the dawn patrollers in LCC (would really love to see this happen regardless). If it
is not about the money, like ASL claims, a simple, free permitted parking system would achieve the
same result.

I feel backcountry users and canyon enthusiasts are getting the short end of the stick and frankly ASL
is giving us the middle finger with this permitted parking plan. I understand the mission of your
company is to “protect natural resources for generations to come,” and I believe that you guys will
do the right thing, step up and act, that falls in harmony with your mission. I look forward to your
response.

Thanks




Thanks again.
Tyler
To whom it may concern:

My name is Anna Robling. This will be my third winter season as an Alta season pass holder.
I became a legal resident of Alta in August 2020. I vote here. I live here. I work here.

I am writing to Alta Ski Lifts not only with concern for our small, close-knit Alta community but
also with concern for the integrity and respect of Public Lands across the country.

Alta Ski Lifts has said itself, “Alta is more than a ski area. We are a whole community of
groups and organizations that make Alta special.” The abuse of the SUP provided by the
USFS suggests otherwise. The way that ASL has negotiated (see: bullied) local government
officials, small business owners, and residents based on contract technicalities is despicable.
ASL frequently wields the charm and mystique of the Alta Community in marketing copy on its
website. It seems that this adoration is merely empty praise of a social ecosystem the company
has no real stake in preserving and nourishing, and would, quite frankly, rather do away with.

In your words, “Because we can’t do this alone. Alta has worked hand-in-hand with
some incredible local partners to preserve the Alta community we know and love.”

Barricading access to public lands is not a step towards preserving the Alta community you
“know and love”. Preventing town of Alta residents from having a place to park their cars is a
step in the opposite direction; it is backing community members, like myself, who make a small
hourly wage and have little to no obvious benefit to the Ski Area’s balance sheet, into a
cumbersome corner. It is an abuse of power. Unfortunately, that comes as no surprise. It suggests
that community members are not an asset but a liability to ASL’s bottom line.

Additional parking on an ad hoc basis is not practical or reasonable. Imagine if someone put ad
hoc restrictions on your personal driveway, “oh yeah you have one, but it is subject to change on
a whim at an hour or any moment if someone can pay to park in that spot!” They can’t do that, of
course, because you own your driveway. Many community members are not landowners. We
rely on the use of Public Land that ASL is grossly manipulating. Random time restrictions would
create a significant impingement on the ability of Little Cottonwood Canyon residents to come
and go freely from their homes. There is a more compassionate way to solve the Little
Cottonwood Canyon transportation conundrum.

54 parking spaces is not enough to accommodate the employees of even one lodge. Let alone
guests. If Alta Ski Lifts really respects and cherishes this community, Alta Ski Lifts should
consider a more neighborly agreement with the Town of Alta.


Sincerely,
Anna Robling
