                                                    Decision Memo
                                                   Baldy RAC Sites
                   Project number in the Planning, Appeals, and Litigation System database: 61387
                                             United States Forest Service
                            Salt Lake Ranger District, Uinta-Wasatch-Cache National Forest
                                               Salt Lake County, Utah
                                                     January 2022

This decision incorporates all information in this document and included in the project file.

1.0 DECISION AND RATIONALE

This document details my decision to authorize Alta Ski Area’s (Alta) proposal to install Remote Avalanche Control
(RAC) devices on Mount Baldy to determine if they offer a viable alternative to the Baldy Tram. A total of 11 RAC
devices may be required to replace the 105mm Howitzer. Eight devices would be installed on Alta’s private land, and up
to three would be installed on Forest Service land on the north-facing side of Mount Baldy. These are labeled as RAC #1,
RAC #10 and RAC #11 on the project map.

Each RAC installation would consist of an approximately 1-square-meter concrete footing drilled into rock outcroppings
and a tower mounted to the footing. Equipment, personal, and materials would be transported to the site via helicopter.
On-site work would be done by hand. Once the towers are in place, helicopters would be used to place the O’bellx or
devices on the towers and service them during the winter season. The devices would be removed during the summer.

When in place and armed, a remote signal would be used to trigger the devices. Detonations will occur in the air above the
snowpack for better effect on weak layers and triggering of avalanche releases.

Each installation would disturb less than 250 square feet. Alta proposes to install RAC #1 during the summer of 2022.
Dependent on its performance, RACs #10 and #11 would be installed the subsequent summer.

Based on environmental analysis and input from an interdisciplinary team of Uinta-Wasatch-Cache National Forest
resource specialists, I have determined that this action may be categorically excluded from documentation in an
environmental assessment or an environmental impact statement. In particular, this action falls under: Category 3:
Approval, modification, or continuation of special uses that require less than 20 acres of NFS lands (36 CFR
220.6(e)(3)).

The Environmental Analysis Review section documents rationale to support my finding that no extraordinary
circumstances exist, along with findings required by other applicable laws and regulations to demonstrate compliance
with the regulatory framework for the activities authorized by this decision. Specifically, the National Forest Management
Act, National Environmental Policy Act, Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended; Clean Water Act; Congressional
designated areas such as wilderness, wilderness study areas, or National Recreation Areas; Inventoried Roadless Areas;
Research Natural Areas; Native American religious or cultural sites, archaeological sites, or historical properties or areas;
Migratory Bird Treaty Act; Environmental Justice (Executive Order 12898).

I find that the proposed action is fully consistent with the 2003 Revised Wasatch-Cache National Forest Plan, as well as in
compliance with all applicable laws, regulations, and policies.

Prescription 4.5 emphasizes developed recreation areas, which include, developed facilities such as campgrounds,
trailheads, boat docks, and resorts as well as adjacent areas associated with these sites. High levels of visitor interaction
can be expected where sights and sound of others are noticeable and there are moderate to high opportunities for social
interaction… Management visibility is high with managers focusing on public safety, service education, user ethics, and
enforcement… Because of the large capital investments in these areas, site protection is paramount.




                                 Project Summary and Resource Determination Form – Baldy RAC Sites
                                                                1
Project is consistent with Recreation Desired Future Conditions in the Forest Plan, “Additional development….will
generally involve the replacement and/or modification of existing facilities, modifications of existing ski runs, and
adjustments to evolving technologies and user preference” (p. 4-161).

2.1 Design Criteria - The following Design Criteria will be required as part of this decision:

Engineering:
   1. Submit detailed design drawings that include site plan, architectural, structural, plumbing, mechanical, and
        electrical requirements. Plans should include:
            a. Site plan – location of proposed and existing structures and constructed features, utilities, related roads
                 and parking areas, accessible routes to/from the proposed structures.
            b. Architectural Plans - dimensioned plans with foundation plan, floor plans, roof plan, door and window
                 requirements, stair and railing, building elevation, and any other accessible features. Include exterior
                 building materials and colors.
            c. Structural Plans – size and requirements for structural members, supports, connectors, shearwalls, etc.
            d. Electrical Plans – Include location of electrical service on the site plan, electrical plan for building with
                 building service panel identified. Include grounding details.
   2. The drawings must be stamped by the Professional Engineer and Architect responsible for the design, and must
        comply with all current building codes (IBC, IPC, IMC, NEC, etc.), standard, and other safety requirements.
   3. Submit Structural Calculations for the structure (building, tower, etc.) that includes loads required by IBC, ASCE-
        7 and TIA-222-G (vertical and lateral). Structural calculations must be stamped by the structural engineer
        responsible for the design. Schedule - Indicate approximate starting date for construction of the improvement(s)
        and/or related infrastructure.
   4. If required, obtain the appropriate building permits from the local building permitting agency with jurisdiction
        prior to beginning work. Provide copy of permit or documentation of application for permit.
Provide a construction schedule for all elements that will be built.

Recreation:
Make sure the recreating public doesn’t have access to the project site during the construction phases of the project. Place
signs up notifying the public that construction is in progress once the project begins. Follow BMP’s outlined in the
2018ALTA MDP EA for similar remote avalanche control technology installation.

Scenery:
Per the Scenery Conversion Table in the 2003 Forest Plan, Alta Ski Lifts has a Landscape Character Theme of Resort
Natural Setting with a High Scenic Integrity Objective (p.4-93). Visual impacts will be present during the construction
phase of the project. Alta Ski Lifts will follow ski area Best Management Practices to rehab project sites so they will
blend in with the natural surroundings once construction is complete.
Alta Ski Lifts will treat the galvanized steel on the towers of the Wyssen Towers so they aren’t as reflective in the non-
winter months.

Vegetation:
Surveys conducted on August 11th, 2021 detected a population of Erigeron garrettii within the project area. Locally
common in area, this population extends outside of project area to top of ridgeline. This project May Impact Individuals or
their Habitat But Will Not Likely Contribute To A Trend Towards Federal Listings or Loss of Population Viability. There
were no noxious or invasive weed populations detected in the project area. Follow BMP’s to prevent the spread of
noxious and invasive weeds:
    1. All existing infestations within/adjacent to project area should be treated prior to project implementation.
    2. Do not stage equipment, materials, or crews in invasive plant populations.
    3. All equipment should be cleaned and free of vegetation, soil, and debris prior to beginning work on Forest Service
        land.
    4. Revegetation should be initiated as promptly as practical. Seed only where natural regeneration of desirable
        species is unlikely or is susceptible to or threatened by invasive or noxious plants. Seed mix will be approved by
        the Forest Service and certified weed free.


                                Project Summary and Resource Determination Form – Baldy RAC Sites
                                                               2
    5. For at least three years after project completion, treat invading noxious weeds as needed on areas impacted by
         ground disturbing operations.

4.0 AGENCIES, ORGANIZATIONS & PERSONS CONTACTED

The Forest Service conducted internal scoping with the interdisciplinary team of Uinta-Wasatch-Cache National Forest
resource specialists at the September 2021 Small NEPA meetings and external scoping by entering the project into the
Planning, Appeals, and Litigation System database (PALS).

6.0 ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW PROCESS AND IMPLEMENTATION

Decisions that are categorically excluded from documentation in an Environmental Assessment (EA) or Environmental
Impact Statement (EIS) are not subject to an administrative review process (Agriculture Act of 2014 [Pub. L. No. 113-79],
Subtitle A, Sec. 8006). The project may be implemented immediately.

7.0 CONTACT PERSON

For additional information about the project, contact Ben Kraja, arben.kraja@usda.gov, (385) 421-1458
DAVID WHITTEKIEND Digitally signed by DAVID WHITTEKIEND
___________________________________________
                      Date: 2022.01.10 16:04:16 -07'00'
                                                                                   ____________
David Whittekiend                                                                  Date
Forest Supervisor
Uinta-Wasatch-Cache National Forest



In accordance with federal civil rights law and U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) civil rights regulations and policies, the
USDA, its agencies, offices, and employees, and institutions participating in or administering USDA programs are prohibited from
discriminating based on race, color, national origin, religion, sex, gender identity (including gender expression), sexual orientation,
disability, age, marital status, family/parental status, income derived from a public assistance program, political beliefs, or reprisal or
retaliation for prior civil rights activity, in any program or activity conducted or funded by USDA (not all bases apply to all programs).
Remedies and complaint filing deadlines vary by program or incident. Persons with disabilities who require alternative means of
communication for program information (e.g., Braille, large print, audiotape, American Sign Language, etc.) should contact the
responsible Agency or USDA’s TARGET Center at (202) 720-2600 (voice and TTY) or contact USDA through the Federal Relay
Service at (800) 877-8339. Additionally, program information may be made available in languages other than English. To file a
program discrimination complaint, complete the USDA Program Discrimination Complaint Form, AD-3027, found online at
http://www.ascr.usda.gov/complaint_filing_cust.html and at any USDA office or write a letter addressed to USDA and provide in the
letter all of the information requested in the form. To request a copy of the complaint form, call (866) 632-9992. Submit your
completed form or letter to USDA by: (1) mail: U.S. Department of Agriculture, Office of the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights,
1400 Independence Avenue, SW, Washington, D.C. 20250-9410; (2) fax: (202) 690-7442; or (3) email: program.intake@usda.gov.
USDA is an equal opportunity provider, employer and lender.




                                    Project Summary and Resource Determination Form – Baldy RAC Sites
                                                                   3
