May 25,2022

Staff Memo to the Alta Planning Commission

RE: Alta Ski Area Request for a Conditional Use Permit for eight (8) Wyssen Tower Remote Avalanche
Control Systems on Mount Baldy. Eleven (11) total, but three(3) on Forest property, eight (8) on private
property under Planning Commission purview.

The Alta Ski Area (Alta) is requesting a Conditional Use Permit (CUP) to install 11 Wyssen Tower Remote
Avalanche Control Systems (RACS), 8 on their private property and 3 on Forest property, in the Mount
Baldy Area.

Alta’s letter of application and background materials on the Wyssen Towers, Department of Justice ATF
Approval letter and Forest Service approval letter for the towers on Forest property are attached. The
application letter and attachments provide a detailed description of the proposal.

The Forest Service has jurisdiction over the RACS installations on Forest property. The town has
jurisdiction over the private property requests. The RACS on Alta’s property are property zoned FR-50
and require CUP approval prior to construction. They also require a variance since they will be
constructed on slope over 30%, but that is an issue for the Land Use Appeal Authority and will be dealt
with separately.

In the FR-50 zone, anything but a single-family dwelling and accessory uses to single family dwellings
requires a CUP. The ski area is a conditional use under “Commercial and private recreation” and the
RACS qualify as conditional uses since they are “accessory uses and structures customarily incidental to
a conditional use.”

10-6A-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
All conditional uses are subject to sections 10-6A-4 through and including 10-6A-9 of this article, except
that the regulations of sections 10-6A-4 through 10-6A-9 of this article may be modified by the town
council as they relate to Public Use and Quasi-Public Uses.
 Accessory uses and structures customarily incidental to a conditional use.
 Commercial and private recreation.
Staff analysis of Alta’s CUP application:
The requirements don’t really apply to the current RACS proposal. Those requirements, 10-6A-4-9, are
attached separately. The requirements, established over 50 years ago, anticipated dealing with more
traditional buildings and structures, not modern-day remote-controlled avalanche mitigation systems.
With Alta’s request there are no issues with the standard requirements such as lot size, coverage,
parking, setbacks, waterway setbacks or wastewater systems. Alta will follow the Forest approvals
revegetation plan for any disturbance, even on their private lands. It seems the only applicable
regulations would be slope, height and building material. Slope will be delt with by the Appeal Authority.
Height is determined by the avalanche paths and terrain. Building material has been determined by the
design requirements of the specialized manufacturer of the racs.
Alta’s application letter does an excellent job of defining the installation, character and need for the
Wyssen Towers. The addition of the Department of Justice’s ATF approval letter, the Forest Service
Decision Memo and the Foundation Instruction and Assembly information of the Wyssen Avalanche
Structures give even more dept to the project and need. The Forest Service has jurisdiction over any
structures on Forest property and has given their approval. Alta will follow the same requirements of
the Forest Service and the ATF approval and conditions for the installation of the structures on their
private land now under Planning Commission purview.
These racs will replace the use of military weapons for avalanche control, and the hazards associated
with the use of military weapons. Plus, the Department of Defense has targeted 2025 for the
discontinuation for the use of military weapons for avalanche control. It is best to get ahead of that
deadline with the installation and use of modern alternative avalanche control methods like the RACS in
this request.
The proposed RACS, if successful, would eliminate the need for a tram to Mount Baldy to transport ski
area personnel to conduct avalanche control with hand charges, exposing those personnel to both
avalanche and explosive risk.
Recommendation
Staff recommends approval of the structures as submitted, with the same requirements and conditions
issued under Forest Service and Department of Justice ATF approval letters as attached as well as the
Wyssen Avalanche Structure Foundation installation instructions, also attached.
