                                ORDINANCE #2022 – O – 5
                  ORDINANCE REPEALING AND REPLACING,
                CHAPTER 3 ARTICLE B “DISTURBING THE PEACE”

       WHEREAS, the Town of Alta (“Alta”) Town Council ("Council) is authorized to enact
ordinances for the health, safety, and well-being of its residents and visitors; and

       WHEREAS, the Council has received various reports and complaints about noise
disturbances from parties, gatherings, loud music, pets, and construction; and

      WHEREAS, the Council wishes to enact an ordinance establishing quiet hours within the
Town and that prohibits unreasonable noise between the hours of 10:00 pm and 7:00 am.

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by Alta Town Council of, Utah, that:

        SECTION I. ENACTED. Title 5, Chapter 3, Article B is hereby repealed and replaced as
written in the attached Exhibit 1.

       SECTION II. Effective Date. This Ordinance shall be effective 60 days after publication.

        PASSED AND APPROVED by the Town of Alta Town Council, Utah, this 13th day of
July in the year 2022.


                                            TOWN OF ALTA




                                            Roger Bourke, Mayor

ATTEST:


Jen Clancy, Town Clerk
                                          EXHIBIT 1


5-3B-1 Noise Restrictions.
A. General Prohibitions. No person shall make or cause to be made any noise that unreasonably
   annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace, safety, or welfare
   of any person, or precludes their enjoyment of property or affects their property’s value. This
   general prohibition is not limited by the specific restrictions listed in the following
   subsections.
B. Specific Restrictions. The following acts are declared to be unlawful:
   1. Radios, Television Sets, Musical Instruments, Tape or Record Players, Amplifiers and
      Similar Devices. Operating or permitting the use or operation of any such device
      between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in such a manner as to be plainly audible
      across property boundaries or through partitions common to two or more persons within
      a building.
   2. Domestic Power Tools. Operating or permitting the use or operation of any mechanically
      powered saw, drill, sander, grinder, lawn or garden tool, or similar device used outdoors
      between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in such a manner as to be plainly audible
      across property boundaries.
   3. Construction. Operating or permitting the operation of any tool or equipment used in
      construction, drilling or demolition between the hours of 6:30 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
      Monday -Saturday and outside 10:00 a.m. to 6:30 p.m. on Sundays, in such a manner as
      to be plainly audible across property boundaries. “Equipment” shall include the use of
      helicopters for construction purposes.
   4. Horns and Signaling Devices. Operating a horn or other audible signaling device on any
      motor vehicle except in an emergency or when required by law.
   5. Motor Vehicles. This section shall apply to the total noise from a motor vehicle or
      combination of vehicles and shall not be construed as limiting or precluding the
      enforcement of any other provision of this chapter relating to mufflers or noise control.
           a. No person shall operate or use nor shall any person cause, allow, permit, or fail to
              control the operation or use of any motor vehicle upon any public property,
              public or private right-of-way:
                   i. Unless the noise control system is in constant operation and free of
                      defects that affect sound reduction;
                  ii. With any cut out, bypass or similar device which increases sound pressure
                      levels;
           b. When the noise control system has been modified, punctured, or rendered
              inoperative.
           c. Defect in Vehicle. No person shall operate nor shall any person cause, allow,
              permit, or fail to control the operation or use of any motor vehicle that emits
              excessive or unusual noises because of disrepair or mode of operation feet.
   6. Shouting and Loud Conversations. No person shall vocalize at levels which amount to a
      plainly audible noise from a distance of 100 feet or more for a duration longer than 10
                                            EXHIBIT 1


        seconds or engage in loud talking or yelling that is plainly audible across property
        boundaries between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
    7. Animals. Harboring or keeping any animal which, by causing frequent or long continued
       noise, in such a manner as to be plainly audible across property boundaries nearby.
    8. Fireworks. Noise from fireworks unless authorized elsewhere in Town code.
5-3B-2 Penalty
A. Except as otherwise provided within the Alta Municipal Code, any person, entity or
   organization who shall violate any provisions of this chapter shall be fined in the amount set
   forth in the consolidated fee schedule or section 1-4-1.
B. A person, entity or organization in violation of any provisions of this chapter may be subject
   to a criminal citation as provided in section 1-4-1, or a civil citation at the Town’s discretion.
   Each day, or each separate incident within a day, of such unlawful activity as is prohibited
   shall be deemed a separate offense.
C. In the event repeated violations persist by a person, entity, or organization, in addition to the
   fines or fees assessed for each day the noise continues, the Town may restrain or enjoin
   actions which violate this chapter.
5-3B-3 Exemptions
A. The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the emission of sound for the purpose of
   alerting persons to the existence of an emergency, or the emission of sound in the
   performance of work to prevent or alleviate physical harm or property damage threatened or
   caused by a public calamity or other emergency, such as standby power generation
   equipment, and water or waste pumps during an outage or emergency.
B. The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any activities or events that are solely
   conducted by the Town.
C. The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any activities related to avalanche mitigation
   or snow removal.
D. The Town may grant a permit for times outside this chapter for helicopter construction
   activities upon application and compliance with requirements set by the Town.
