                                              Briefing Memo

To: Alta Town Council
From: Town Marshal Mike Morey
Date: July 5, 2022

Re: Existing noise ordinance and proposed noise ordinance



Councilmembers,

Please consider at least the following points when reviewing the draft noise ordinance revision. The
ordinance language is pasted below for quick reference or linked in this document.

    •   The language is problematic in that 5-3B-1 does not include any language regarding time, place,
        or manner where certain conduction would be a violation. It really creates a subjective standard
        that if someone perceives a noise as offensive it is a violation.
    •   Section 5-3B-2 A: contains serious constitutional issues pertaining to government restrictions on
        free speech. It grants the Marshal authority to favor events of cultural, political, intellectual, or
        religious interest, AND requires the applicant to submit content.
    •   Section 5-3B-2 A: prohibits speakers from being mounted to the exterior of a building. Many
        properties are in violation of this part.

The Marshal’s Office struggles with event organizers such as weddings and parties asking for clear
guidelines on how late music can be played or whether a permit is required. This usually ends up with
some type of unenforceable verbal guidance. It also presents challenges on how to defensibly respond
to complaints.

The Town Attorneys have drafted an ordinance template for your consideration at the upcoming council
meeting. I believe it is included in your meeting materials.

The staff is soliciting your guidance by introducing this as an agenda item. We are hoping to learn the
Council’s will in terms of establishing a balance between the economic viability of our business
community and the peace and comfort of those affected by these activities.

For reference, here are the text sections in our existing ordinance: Article B Disturbing the Peace:

        5-3B-1: NOISE:

        It is a class C misdemeanor and, upon conviction, subject to penalty as provided in section 1-4-1
        of this code, for any person to disturb the peace or quiet of any neighborhood, family or person
        by loud or unusual noises, by tumultuous or offensive conduct. (1980 Code § 13-331; amd. 2010
        Code)

        5-3B-2: LOUDSPEAKERS:

          A. Permit Required: It is an infraction and, upon conviction, subject to penalty as provided in
        section 1-4-1 of this code, for any person to maintain, operate, connect or suffer or permit to be
        maintained, operated or connected any calliope or radio apparatus, sound device or any talking
       machine or loudspeaker attached thereto in such a manner that the loudspeaker or amplifier
       causes the sound from such radio apparatus or sound device or talking machine to be projected
       directly therefrom outside of any building, vehicle or out of doors; provided, that the town
       marshal may grant a permit to so broadcast any events or happenings of cultural, political,
       intellectual or religious interest. Every person desiring a permit to so broadcast shall make
       application, file a statement showing the place where he proposes to broadcast, the times and
       probable duration, and the nature, topics or titles of said broadcast. Said permit shall not be
       arbitrarily denied and when an application for a permit is denied, the town marshal shall set
       forth in writing and with particularity the grounds for so denying the application for a permit.
       (1980 Code § 13-333; amd. 2010 Code)

         B. Exception: Nothing herein contained shall be construed to prevent the operation of a radio
       apparatus, sound device, amplifier or talking machine used in a reasonable manner by any
       person within any building, vehicle or structure even though the sound therefrom may be heard
       on the outside of such building, vehicle or structure; provided, that the said apparatus, sound
       device, amplifier or talking machine shall not project the sound therefrom directly outside of
       any building, vehicle or out of doors and; provided further, that no such radio apparatus, sound
       device, amplifier or talking machine is in any way fastened to or connected with any outside wall
       or window in any building, vehicle or structure so that sound therefrom is projected outside of
       such wall or window. (1980 Code § 13-333)

Thank you in advance for your consideration.
