                          Peruvian Estates West Budget Amendment Project

To: Town Council
From: John Guldner
Date: 8/2/2022

The Town is proposing a budget amendment to go ahead with a waterline project in Peruvian Estates
West (PE) that has been identified and desired in plans since 2011 and most formally in a report by
Forsgren Associates’ Clarence Kemp in 2014.

The existing PE waterline is a 6” line of outdated pipe, not buried properly and dead ending on the
western edge of Peruvian Estates in a fire hydrant.

The 2011/2014 ideas recommended replacing the old pipe and extending the line down to Hellgate,
looping the system back up along the highway eliminating the dead end. That would involve just over
1,000 feet of additional piping and trenching most of which would have been forest lands between PE
and The Falls at Sugarplum Subdivision. The loop would have allowed an additional fire hydrant on the
west end to serve Hellgate and the Falls subdivision.

Keith Hanson came up with an alternative plan which would provide the same improvements to PE as
well as an additional hydrant on the west end across from Hellgate and The Falls at Sugarplum, while
eliminating the need to work through forest property.

This new plan includes a new pressure reducing station near the road at the beginning of PE. That
station would allow better pressure for areas both east and west of PE. An 8”, modern pipe would be
installed at a more appropriate depth. The pipe would still dead end just beyond PE in a new fire
hydrant but would provide more reliable service.

Salt Lake County Service Area #3 has non-potable water reservoir on north side of road up the slope
from Hellgate. This project includes running a line down from that reservoir to a new fire hydrant on the
north side of the road which would provide additional fire protection to Hellgate and the homes in The
Falls.

Keith’s alternative is an excellent solution providing upgraded more reliable service to PE, more
manageable control of the pressure on both sides of PE and a new fire hydrant on the west end to
service Hellgate and The Falls without having to excavate a new trench through > 1,000’ of forest
property.

This current option is much more expensive than the loop system shown in 2014 but many things have
changed over the last 8 years and that loop system would be much more expensive today as well.

The town has the money in the water account. This budget amendment would simply highlight the use
of that money for the PE project transparently in the budget.

7/31/2022 Water Account Balances
PTIF $283,072.98
Zion Checking $302,515.36
Total: $585,588.34
