Alta Town Council

Staff Report



To: Alta Town Council
From: Chris Cawley, Assistant Town Administrator
Re: Capital Projects Update
Date: September 7, 2022
Attachments:



Update on 2023 Projects

Below are updates on projects approved for funding in FY 2023 that staff has made progress
toward completing since the June 15 Alta Town Council meeting.

Project: Community Center Rear Yard Erosion Control
Description: The erosion control or rockfall netting that retains the hillside behind the Town
of Alta Community Center is over forty years old and is badly damaged, creating risks for the
building and for the safety of those working in and around it. Staff recently met with rockfall
mitigation experts from UDOT, a vendor of rockfall mitigation products and a contractor to
discuss the feasibility of replacing or repairing the system.
Cost Estimate Notes: A reputable geotechnical contractor visited the community center
twice to study and develop a possible project approach. The contractor did not provide a
formal bid or detailed estimate, but we did talk through a couple options and the rough
costs associated with each:

       •   A project to remove as much debris as possible from behind the existing netting
           and the bottom of the slope, and then apply new rockfall netting over what is
           currently in place, without removing the existing netting. This would involve
           cutting an access pathway to the top of the slope from the location of the UTA
           bus shelter, so that a “spider hoe” style excavator can access the top of the
           slope. The cost of such a project could be as much as $250,000, according to the
           contractor, and could take up to two weeks to complete.
       •   A more limited project to install a single roll of netting over a hole in the existing
           netting. This project may reduce the likelihood that material continues to fall out
           of this hole, but it would leave all the existing netting to continue deteriorating
           and may provide only a modest improvement in safety. A project of this nature
           could still cost $50,000 or more, as it would entail several days of crane and
           other equipment rental, material costs, and labor.
       •   Neither of these project approaches and rough cost estimates include any work
           on the slopes behind the post office and on the west side of the building, which
           are both active rockfall areas that have never been reinforced.

Next Steps: The Town needs to determine how much it is willing to spend to address the
erosion and rockfall that is occurring around the exterior of the community center. The
ongoing erosion is a serious hazard to the building and the public. Assuming the Town does
not want to spend $250,000 on a project that would provide reliable, longer-term erosion
control, the Town should consider an intermediate project that could improve safety for a
period of 2-5 years, and it must begin planning to replace the community center as soon as
possible so that the slope can be stabilized comprehensively as part of a construction
project.
Estimated Duration and Completion: Unknown

Project: Town Office Window Replacement
Description: The Town of Alta Office Building was built in the early 1990s and contains all
the original windows. Several of these windows need to be replaced because the seal
between the panes has failed, limiting visibility, and reducing thermal efficiency.
Cost Estimate Notes: The Town accepted a proposal from a building envelope contractor for
a $6,332.00 project. No other bids were offered.
Next Steps: Schedule project.
Estimated Duration and Completion: Windows scheduled for delivery October 10. 2-day
project completed the week of October 10th.

Project: Firehouse Garage Heater Ventilation Modification
Description: A pipe that vents heater exhaust from the firehouse garage bays at the
community center building is rusted through and needs to be replaced, because rain and
meltwater leaks through the corroded pipe into the garage near an electrical panel.
Cost Estimate Notes: Staff is negotiating a contract with the lowest bidder on the project,
although the price of the project proposal should remain $5,567.00
Next Steps: Sign contract, schedule project.
Estimated Duration and Completion: Contractor would be onsite for 2-3 days. Estimated
completion by November 1st.

Project: Community Center Roof Access
Description: We’re planning to install a 21’ tall safety cage ladder on the west side of the
building exterior so that employees can access the roof to conduct snow removal or other
maintenance projects. We’ll need to rent a crane to hang the ladder and arrange for a crew
of workers to help attach the ladder to the wall.
Cost Estimate Notes: The ladder, a locking door for the safety cage, and delivery will cost
$3,164.36. We have not developed an estimate for additional costs.
Next Steps: Await feasibility opinion and cost estimate from erosion control contractor;
determine whether to move forward with erosion control repair project; if erosion control
project is scheduled, attempt to schedule ventilation modification shortly after erosion
control project.
Estimated Duration and Completion: 2 days. Ladder Delivery by October 10. Completion by
November 1st.


                                                                                              2
