                                      Alta Ski Area
                              Roadside Parking Replacement
                                     December 2022


Background

Alta Ski Area (Alta) is located in the Town of Alta at the end of Little Cottonwood Canyon in the
Unita Wasatch Cache National Forest. Alta has a Special Use Permit to provide lift-served skiing
and its associated amenities on Forest Service lands. Alta uses USFS lands under its special use
permit and its private lands to provide lift-served skiing, snowcat skiing, and human-powered
recreation, primarily backcountry skiing for outdoor enthusiasts. Parking for visitors to Alta
occurs in parking lots developed and maintained by Alta Ski Area on USFS lands, private lands
(Town of Alta & the Alta Lodge), and roadside parking on USFS lands within the Town of Alta
located within the Utah Department of Transportation (UDOT) right-of-way.

Historically, during peak periods, all available parking spaces within the Town of Alta, including
the roadside parking between the Alta Lodge and the bypass road, have been needed and used
to accommodate visitors, employees, and residents. As many as ninety-two cars have been
parked between the Alta Lodge and the bypass road in the past (see Exhibit 2). Prior to the 21-
22 ski season, roadside parking has, on extremely busy days, also extended down the bypass
road and or the mainline.

During the 20-21 ski season, we had over thirty days the number of vehicles coming to Alta,
filled all the available parking areas, and the roadside parking extended down the bypass road.
This created significant traffic congestion, public safety, and snow removal issues. On fifteen of
those days, vehicles were turned away for hours as more vehicles came than available parking.

To reduce the traffic congestion, public safety, and snow removal issues encountered during
peak periods and to manage the number of vehicles coming to Alta, Alta implemented a paid
parking reservation system for peak periods at the beginning of the 21-22 ski season. The
reservation system changed the morning traffic pattern, reduced the number of vehicles, and
improved the visitor experience in Little Cottonwood Canyon. A result of the reservation
system was that during the 21-22 ski season, there were no days when more vehicles came to
Alta than available parking spaces, and roadside parking never spilled down the bypass road.
Purpose & Need


While Alta’s parking reservation system is managing the number of vehicles coming to Alta
during peak periods, public safety concerns and snow removal issues still exist for the roadside
parking between the Deep Powder House and the Alta bypass road. Vehicles parked on the
roadside in this area create the following safety hazards/issues:

   •   To enter or exit a vehicle parked along the roadside in this area, the driver must open
       the vehicle’s door over the white line into the lane of traffic, as well as exit/enter the
       vehicle into/from the lane of traffic.

   •   The occupants of vehicles parked along the roadside in this area must walk in the lane of
       traffic to/from their vehicle to/from their destination, often impeding the flow of traffic
       and risking being hit by vehicles using the road. These occupants often are wearing ski
       boots and carrying ski equipment.

   •   To access the ski area from the roadside parking in this area, occupants of vehicles
       parked along the roadside in this area must walk down the Wildcat entry ramp, usually
       in ski boots and carrying skis. They risk injury from slips and falls when the road is slick
       and being struck by vehicles walking down or up the ramp.

   •   Vehicles parked along the roadside parking in this area impede the ability of UDOT to
       remove snow from the road during the day. When vehicles are not parked in this area,
       the snow can be pushed over the edge of the road to keep the roadway clear. UDOT
       will often suspend snow removal operations in the Town of Alta during midday storms
       when roadside parking exists in this area since it can’t effectively remove the snow in
       this area and the risk of hitting a vehicle or people on the road is high.

   •   Vehicles parked in this roadside parking are frequently illegally parked over the white
       line into the lane of traffic, which can impede the flow of traffic and increases the risk of
       accidents. At times this occurs because the white line can’t be seen because the road is
       snow packed. At other times enough snow has not been pushed off the shoulder to
       allow enough room for the vehicle park on the roadside and not be across the white
       line.

The tapered shape of the Wildcat parking lot results in less efficient parking than could be
obtained if the parking lot was more rectangular in shape.
Proposed Action (Project Description)
Alta Ski Area proposes to replace the roadside parking (92 parking spaces) along State Road 210
between the Alta bypass road and the Deep Powder House by squaring up the Wildcat Parking
Lot. The roadside parking would be replaced with parking spaces in the Wildcat Parking Lot
that do not impede the traffic impede on State Road 210 and eliminate the risk of vehicles or
people being hit by traffic on State Road 210.

The Wildcat Parking Area is currently an irregular quadrilateral. The width of the East end of
the parking area is approximately 320 feet and the West part of the lot narrows to
approximately 210 feet. Alta proposes to square up this parking area through a cut on the
North side of the parking area and some fill on South side of the area. This would allow the
parking area to be tapered to approximately 275 rather than 210 feet. Approximately .30 acres
would be added to the Wildcat Parking area and the limit of disturbance for this improvement
would not exceed .65 acres. Approximately 90 parking spaces would be added by this
improvement.

Exhibit 1
Timing
Alta Ski Area would like to complete these improvements during the summer of 2023.

Project Information
Project Title: Parking Improvements
Project Manager: Tom Giaradina
Applicant: Alta Ski Area
General Location: Alta Ski Area, Wildcat Parking Lot
Elevation: 8,685 feet
Amount of new disturbance: .65 acres
Amount of previous disturbed area: 0 acres
Amount of total disturbance: .65 acres
Duration of Project: Summer of 2023


Exhibit 2
