1-15-1 TOWN MANAGER OFFICE CREATED; ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS

  A. Office Created: The office of the Town Manager, which shall be known as "Town
     Manager", is created and established pursuant to Utah code section 10-3b-403. The Town
     Manager shall be referred to as the Town Manager and is the chief administrative officer
     of the Town.

  B. Control: The powers, duties and functions of the office of Town Manager shall be subject
     to the control and policies of the Town Councilpursuant to Town ordinance and
     resolution.

  C. Appointment: The Town CouncilMayor shall appoint the Town Manager with the advice
     and consent of the Town Council, who shall be appointed on the basis of education and
     experience in administrative, executive abilities and qualifications.

  D. Bond: Before taking office, the Town Manager shall furnish a fidelity bond, at the
     expense of the Town, in the amount of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00), conditioned
     upon the faithful performance of his or her duties, with a corporation licensed to do
     business in this state as a surety. Such bond shall be filed with the Town Clerk after the
     Town Manager is appointed and being approved by the Town Council.

  E. Term Of Office: The Town Manager shall serve at the pleasure of the Mayor and Town
     Council and may be removed at any time, with or without cause, by a majority vote of the
     Town Council.

  F. Employment Agreement: Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as a limitation on the
     power or authority of the Town Council to enter into any employment agreement with the
     Town Manager with additional terms and conditions of employment not inconsistent with
     any provisions of this chapter.

  G. Salary: The salary and other compensation of the Town Manager shall be established by
     the Town Council in accordance with Utah law.

  H. Office And Time Spent: The Town Manager shall maintain an office in the Town offices
     and shall spend such time in the performance of the duties of Town Manager as is
     necessary or may be required from time to time by the Town Councilperform the duties
     as assigned in Town ordinance or resolution. The Town Manager shall not accept any
     outside employment in addition to employment by the Town without prior approval of
     the Town Council.

  I. Residence: The Town Manager need not be a resident of the Town at the time of the
     Town Manager's appointment or thereafter.

  J. Resignation: Before voluntarily resigning from the position of Town Manager, the Town
     Manager shall give the Town Council at least thirty (60) days' written notice of his or her
     intent to resign.

1-15-1 TOWN MANAGER POWERS, DUTIES, OBLIGATIONS
A. Town Manager Duties: Pursuant to the policies and programs established by the Town
   Council, and under the direction and oversight of the Town CouncilMayor and except as
   otherwise set forth by the Town Council in ordinance, resolution, motion, or this code,
   the Town Manager shall:

       1. Manage the internal affairs of the Town; develop, recommend and implement
          Town policies, practices, rules, regulations and procedures; report to the Mayor;
          report to the Town Council at least monthly; advise the Town Council regarding
          policy options and implementation procedures; carry out legislative directives and
          decisions; and administer contracts.

       2. Establish and maintain effective working relationships with the Mayor, Town
          Council, the Town staff, employees, citizen committees, special interest groups,
          media, contractors, public vendors and representatives from other municipal,
          county, special district, state and federal agencies.

       3. Consistent with the direction of the Town CouncilMayor, be responsible for the
          full and effective use of Town personnel by establishing, in consultation with the
          Town attorney, department directors, division heads orand other management
          employees, overall department objectives, priorities and standards consistent with
          the goals, direction, and objectives of the Town Council; serve as a facilitator in
          the achievement by Town departments of Town Council goals by coordinating
          effective implementation of Town service levels, ordinances, resolutions, rules,
          regulations and directives; exercise managerial control to ensure that the Town
          government and its respective departments function in the most efficient and
          effective manner.

       4. Except for the purpose of inquiry, the Town Council and its members shall deal
          with the administration solely through the Town Manager and neither the Council,
          nor any member thereof, or the Mayor shall give orders to any subordinates of the
          Town Manager, either publicly or privately.

       5. Represent the Town at various meetings or other functions and respond to
          requests or inquiries about Town policies, rules, ordinances, regulations,
          resolutions or services rendered by the Town government.

       6. Enforce all applicable laws, ordinances, rules, regulations, and policies of the
          Town. Assure that all franchises, leases, permits, licenses, contracts and privileges
          granted by the Town are fully performed and observed. [May need to split out
          criminal/civil violation enforcement]

       7. Recommend and prepare for consideration by the Town Council and advisory
          committees long range strategic plans and programs to provide for the health,
          safety, and welfare of the current and future inhabitants of the Town; furnish
          reports to the Town Council as requested.

       8. Except as otherwise provided, be responsible for the overall personnel
          management, function, and implementation of Town personnel ordinances, rules,
          and regulations that have been adopted, approved, or revised by the Town
          Council; coordinate personnel ordinances and rules and regulations adopted by
          the Town Council; coordinate personnel functions with staff such as recruitment,
           selection, and appointment; monitor personnel actions, promotion, discipline,
           demotion, separation and reclassification; coordinate personnel decisions with
           department directors; coordinate activities of individuals rendering professional
           services under contract with the Town.

       9. The Town Manager may examine and inspect the books, records, and official
          papers of any office, department, agency, board, or commission of the Town and
          make investigations and require reports from or about all personnel.

       10. The Town Manager shall promptly notify the Mayor and Town Council of any
           emergency existing in the Town, or in a Town department or body.

       11. Create all necessary departments as approved by the Town Council. Create all
           necessary departments, sections, and offices necessary for the government of the
           Town; prepare recommendations for the Town Council regarding the addition,
           deletion, or reduction in municipal services.

       12. Attend and participate in all meetings of the Town Council unless otherwise
           excluded by the Town Council in a closed executive session, but shall not have a
           right to vote in said meetings.

       13. Approve and sign commercial and residential subdivision plats on behalf of the
           Town.

       14.13.     Perform all other duties and obligations, and exercise the powers set forth
           by ordinance, resolution, regulation, or directive imposed by the Town Council.

B. Department Cooperation: It shall be the duty of all subordinate employees to cooperate
   with the Town Manager in administering the affairs of the Town efficiently,
   economically, and harmoniously.

C. Planning And Land Use: Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Town Manager shall
   exercise no authority over the planning commission or an appeal and variance hearing
   officer.

D. Performance Evaluation: The Town Council shall evaluate, at least annually, the
   performance of the Town Manager.

E. Powers Of The Mayor Not Delegated: Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to
   delegate to the Town Manager the legislative and judicial powers of the mayor, the
   mayor's position as chief executive officer of the Town pursuant to Utah code section 10-
   3b-104(1)(a), chairperson of the Town Council, or any ex officio position which the
   mayor shall hold.

F. [Designate chain of succession of Town Manager?]

   If, because of natural or human-caused disaster or emergency situation, absence,
   disability or death, the Town Manager is unable to carry out the duties imposed by this
   chapter, the duties and authorities of the Town Manager shall be exercised by one of the
   following municipal officials, in the order indicated, until the Town Manager or a person
higher on the priority list becomes capable of exercising such duties:

   1. Mayor;

   2. Mayor Pro Tem;

   3. Council Members in order of seniority on Town Council;

The exercise of interim successor duties pursuant to this subsection shall be promptly
reported to the members of the Town Council as soon as practical by the person assuming
those duties.
