                                               STAFF REPORT
To:       Town of Alta Mayor & Town Council
From: Cameron Platt Polly McLean, Town Attorneys
Date: February 22, 2023
Re:       Town Manager Authority/Duties


Following the Town Council’s (“Council”) discussion of creating a town manager 1 position,
staff revised the draft ordinance to clarify that the appointment and removal of the town manager
will be by the Mayor but also require the advice and consent of the Council. 2 This maintains a
single point of authority through the office of the Mayor but requires the Council to have input
and approval in selecting or releasing a town manager.
The remaining issue is whether the Council wants to delegate all or specific authority and duties
from the Mayor and/or Council to the town manager position. To aid the Council in its
discussions, the authority and duties of the Mayor and Council are listed below. The Town Staff
need specific direction from the Council on how to proceed forward with this topic and are
prepared to answer questions during the Town Council meeting or later. Pursuant to the
Council’s direction, staff will draft the required documents to enact or amend an ordinance.
Mayor’s Authority/Duties UCA § 10-3b-104
      •   Chief Executive Officer Duties
             o All employees report to Chief Executive Officer;
             o Keep the peace and enforce the laws of the municipality (practically and currently
               applied by delegation to the Marshal’s Office by the Mayor); This function can be
               split between criminal and civil enforcement;
             o Ensure statutes, ordinances, and resolutions executed and observed;
             o Sign contracts provided for in budget, ordinance, or resolutions;
             o Cancel or waive fines or forfeitures;
             o Report the condition and needs of the municipality to the Council;
             o Recommend for Council consideration any measure that the mayor considers to
               be in the best interests of the municipality;
             o Deputize residents of the municipality over the age of 21 years to assist in
               enforcing the laws of the state and ordinances of the municipality;
             o Release a person imprisoned for a violation of a municipal ordinance;
             o At any reasonable time, examine and inspect the official books, papers, records,
               or documents of the municipality or any officer, employee, or agency of the
               municipality;


1
  The staff report uses the term “town manager” as the title of the position the Town is creating to replace the Town
Administrator. The actual title of this position can change if the Council prefers another term.
2
  The revisions are in redline format from the original draft ordinance.
             o With the council's advice and consent:
                    assign or appoint a member of the council to administer one or more
                      departments of the municipality; and
                    appoint a person to fill a municipal office; or a vacancy on a commission
                      or committee of the municipality;
             o Perform all duties prescribed by statute or municipal ordinance or resolution;

    •   Mayor’s Judicial, Legislative, or Ceremonial Duties may not be delegated.
          o Regular and voting member of the Council
          o Chair of Council meetings and presides at all Council meetings
          o Exercises ceremonial functions for the municipality;
          o Ex officio positions held by the Mayor.


Town Council Authority/Duties UCA § 10-3b-105 3
    •   Legislative Duties–may not delegate legislative duties.
    •   Town Council is the legislative body of the municipality and exercises the legislative
        powers and performs the legislative duties and functions of the municipality
             o Adopt rules and regulations, not inconsistent with statute, for the efficient
               administration, organization, operation, conduct, and business of the municipality;
             o Prescribe by resolution additional duties, powers, and responsibilities for any
               elected or appointed municipal official, unless prohibited by statute;
             o Require by ordinance that any or all appointed officers reside in the municipality;
             o Create any office that the council considers necessary for the government of the
               municipality;
             o Provide for filling a vacancy in an elective or appointive office;
             o Perform any function specifically provided for by statute or necessarily implied
               by law;
    •   Any executive or administrative power . . . duty or function that: has not been given to
        the mayor under Section 10-3b-104. This is a “catch-all” provision.
Conclusion
The Mayor and Council must decide how to proceed forward with this topic and give direction to
staff on the organization of a town manager position. Staff are prepared to answer questions
during the Town Council meeting or later. Pursuant to the Council’s direction, staff will draft the
required documents to enact or amend an ordinance.



3
  Utah law § 10-3b-403 mentions that the Council may delegate its “executive or administrative power” to a town
manager. In practice, however, the Council only has these executive or administrative power if they are removed
from the Mayor.
