Alta Town Council

Staff Report



To: Town Council
From: Chris Cawley, Assistant Town Administrator
Re: Shuttle Program
Date: March 1, 2023
Attachments:


Background

Since roughly 2010, Alta Chalets has coordinated between various Alta community
partners to contribute funding to what has been known as the “Alta Resort Shuttle,” a
free, around-town service operated by Alta Shuttle that makes trips between residential
areas along the Bypass Road, Alta Ski Area base facilities, and other locations. Over the
past two seasons, partners have contributed more funding to support additional shuttle
service programs. Below is a summary of the three distinct shuttle service programs
operating in Alta this winter. All three services are free of charge and open to the public:

   •   Traditional “Resort Shuttle” running between residential areas on the bypass
       road, Alta Ski Area base facilities, and other locations in Alta
   •   New “Town Shuttle” service primarily intended to pick bus passengers up at the
       GMD bus stop and circulate between numerous former Ski Bus stop locations,
       including the Snowbird Cliff Lodge
   •   The “Night Shuttle,” which was first offered in ski season 21-22, and offers rides
       upon request between Alta and Snowbird

Alta Chalets has indicated that after 13 years of doing so, they no longer want to
coordinate between funding partners or otherwise manage the shuttle program. Alta
Chalets does not retain any of the contributions collected to fund shuttle operations,
and they have managed the program essentially as a service to the community. If
another entity does not step forward to take over the program, the program may not
operate next season.

Request for Town Council Discussion and Possible Action: Should the Town of Alta
Consider Operating a Shuttle Program in the Future?

There is some precedent for the Town of Alta offering shuttle services, which is that the
Town of Alta funded and managed a contract with a transportation company to offer
the Albion Basin Summer Shuttle service for many years. Additionally, there are
numerous examples of local governments in ski area communities (separately from
special-purpose transit districts like UTA) offering local transportation services similar to
Alta’s shuttle program. Staff has been discussing the feasibility and desirability of the
Town leading an effort to plan for the future of the shuttle program, but before we
advance our conversation any further or assemble a working group to plan the next
steps, we’d like to understand whether the council is comfortable with staff taking this
next step. Council members may ask questions or discuss the topic and may consider a
simple motion of support.




                                                                                            2
