                                          Town of Alta
                                 ORDINANCE NO. 2023-O-1
 AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 5 “PUBLIC SAFETY,” CHAPTER 2 “ANIMAL
     CONTROL,” SECTION 3 “DOG LICENSING” TO REMOVE LANGUAGE
         REFERENCING SALT LAKE COUNTY WATERSHED TAGS.
       WHEREAS, the Town of Alta has an interest in promoting public health, safety, and
welfare;
        WHEREAS, any dog found within the boundaries of the Town must be licensed by the
Town;
      WHEREAS, the Town upholds all Salt Lake Valley health department and Salt Lake
County watershed rules and regulations;
       WHEREAS, Salt Lake County no longer issues watershed tags to dogs permitted in
watershed areas;
      WHEREAS, the proposed amendments are in the best interest of the residents of the
Town of Alta;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Alta Town Council that:
      Section 1. Amendment. Section 5-2-3 of the Alta Code of Ordinances is hereby
amended as set forth in Exhibit A.
        Section 2. Effective Date. This ordinance shall go into effect upon publication.


               PASSED AND APPROVED this 8th Day of March, 2023.

                                                            TOWN OF ALTA



                                                            By: _______________________
                                                                Roger Bourke, Mayor
ATTEST:

______________________________
Jen Clancy, Town Clerk




ORDINANCE 2023-O-1
EXHIBIT A (Redline version)
5-2-3: DOG LICENSING:
   A. License Required; Renewal: Any dog found within the boundaries of the Town must be
licensed by the Town. It shall be unlawful for any person to bring a dog within the boundaries of
the Town, whether in a motor vehicle or otherwise, which is not licensed by the Town. All dog
owners which receive dog licenses from the Town must renew said licenses annually, except as
otherwise provided.
  B. Term; Renewal Time Limit: Licenses shall be issued in January and shall be valid through
December of each calendar year. If the holder of a dog license wishes to renew a license, he or
she shall obtain an application for license renewal from the Town which shall be submitted with
the appropriate fee before January 31 of each year. If the application is found to be in order,
the license shall be issued. For good cause shown, the Town may accept an application after
January 31; however, the fee shall be two hundred percent (200%) of the current licensing fee.
In no event shall a license application be accepted after the last day of February in any calendar
year. A dog license which is not renewed by the last day of February shall be forfeited.
  C. Number; Classification: Due to the location of the Town within a watershed area, the
Town Council shall impose limits on the total number of Class A, B, C, and D dog licenses issued
by resolution. The number of licenses shall be reviewed annually and may be increased or
decreased upon a finding by the Town Council in regard to licensee compliance and
consideration of the watershed. However, in no event shall the number of dog licenses in Class
A, B, C, and D collectively exceed ninety-four (94) licenses.
   1. Classifications: There shall be classes of dog licenses as follows:
     a. Class A Licenses: Any full time resident qualifies. For purposes of this license class, a full
time resident is one who physically has lived within the Town at least six (6) months
(consecutively or cumulatively) during each calendar year and, who is registered to vote in the
Town.
   b. Class B Licenses: Those who have ownership interests in improved residential or
commercial property and live part time in the Town.
     c. Class C Licenses: Employees of businesses within the Town who have worked in the
Town for a period of at least three (3) consecutive winter or summer seasons and who have
demonstrated knowledge of the Town's animal control ordinances are eligible for this license.
Said license shall allow the employee to bring the licensed dog to the place of employment on
condition that the dog returns home with its owner at the end of the employee's shift. The
applicant for this license shall show, in addition to other license requirements, written proof
that the owner of the business at which the employee works allows the presence of the dog
and has a suitable location for it.
     d. Class D Licenses: The Mayor shall have the authority to issue a temporary dog license
for demonstrated necessity or extraordinary hardship. Any license issued under this authority


ORDINANCE 2023-O-1
shall be reported at the next regularly scheduled Town Council meeting. Any dog licensed
under this class must apply for and receive a temporary license, and pay a fee set by resolution.
    e. Class E Licenses: The Mayor or his/her designee shall have the authority to issue
temporary licenses to rescue dogs or other groups of dogs requiring specialized training.
   2. Allocation; Drawing: The Town Council may allocate new and forfeited licenses to one or
more of the above classes. If more applicants than licenses exist for any class, a random
drawing shall be held to determine license recipients. If licenses are issued after January of any
given year, the licensee shall be required to pay the full license fee for the year. The
aforementioned actions and rules governing said actions shall be established through
resolutions passed by the Town Council.
  D. Form Of Application; Rabies Certificate; Fee: License applications must be submitted
annually to the administrative staff, utilizing a standard form which requests owner's name and
address, dog's name, sex, color and age, and rabies vaccination information. The application
shall be accompanied by the prescribed license fee and by a current rabies vaccination
certificate. Rabies vaccinations shall be given by a licensed veterinarian. The applicant shall also
sign a written statement signifying that they shall abide by the regulations outlined in this
chapter, and all Salt Lake Valley health department and Salt Lake City watershed rules and
regulations.
 E. Violation; Forfeiture: Any licensed dog whose owner does not fulfill the requirements of
any of the above dog license classifications, shall forfeit said license and watershed tag.
   F. Fees; Proof Of Sterilization: Fees shall be assessed annually by resolution. No dog shall be
licensed as spayed or neutered without proof that sterilization was performed.
 G. Number Permitted: No person at any one household or business within the town shall at
any time retain more than one class A, B, or C license, in any combination.
 H. Unlicensed Dogs Prohibited; Exception: No unlicensed dogs are allowed in the town
except those exemptions set forth in subsection K of this section. Any owner or caretaker of a
dog who brings an unlicensed dog into the jurisdiction is subject to a watershed fine.
   I. Planned Unit Developments; Condominium Properties: If any applicant for a dog license
lives within a planned unit development or condominium property, said applicant for any of the
above dog licenses must submit, with the application, written verification from the property
manager of said development that the issuance of a dog license does not violate regulations
governing said property.
 J. License Tag:
    1. Upon payment of the license fee, the administrative staff may issue to the owner a town
tag and a watershed tag. Each tag shall have stamped thereon a tag number and the current
year. The owner shall attach the tags to the collar or harness of the animal and see that the
collar and tags are constantly worn. Failure to attach the tags as provided shall be in violation of
this subsection.


ORDINANCE 2023-O-1
    2. Dog tags are not transferable from one dog to another. No refunds shall be made on any
dog license fee for any reason whatsoever. Replacements for lost or destroyed tags shall be
issued upon payment of a fee as established by resolution of the town council, to the
administrative staff.
    3. Any person removing or causing to be removed the collar, harness or tags from any
licensed dog without the consent of the owner or keeper thereof, except a licensed
veterinarian or peace officer who removed such for medical or other reasons, shall be in
violation of this subsection.
   4. Upon the death of a licensed dog, the owner must notify the town administrative staff
within ninety (90) days after the death. The owner must inform the department of the name,
sex, age of the dog and the circumstances of its death. The owner shall have one hundred
eighty (180) days after the death of the dog in which to obtain a new dog and license. If the
owner does not obtain a new dog within one hundred eighty (180) days, the owner forfeits the
town tag and watershed tag and must apply for future tags as outlined in this section.
 K. Exemptions To Licensing:
   1. The fee provisions of this section and licensing requirement shall not apply to:
     a. A Service Animal as defined by the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) (29 CFR
35.136).
    b. Dogs required for search and rescue operations or extraordinary circumstances for
which the town marshal requires additional assistance for public safety as allowed by the
mayor or town marshal on a temporary basis.
    2. The town recognizes the need for avalanche dogs to help with public safety. Avalanche
dogs licensed to Alta Ski Lift Company shall not be counted with the total number of dogs being
licensed. However, they shall be licensed with the town and shall be required to follow all
regulations and requirements of this chapter. The number of avalanche dogs licensed with the
town shall be determined by agreement between the town and the Alta Ski Lift Company. The
town further recognizes the need for training opportunities for rescue dogs or other dogs
requiring specialized training. Before conducting training exercises within or entering the town,
all such dogs shall first obtain a permit from the Salt Lake City department of public utilities-
watershed division, and then a class E license from the town.
   3. Nothing in this subsection shall be construed so as to exempt any dog from having a
current rabies vaccination.
  L. Revocation Of Dog License: If the owner of any dog is found to be in violation of this
chapter for a third time, the town marshal or his deputies or an animal control officer, shall
have the dog immediately impounded and the license shall be revoked. (Ord. 1994-O-3, 2-10-
1994; amd. Ord. 1995-O-4, 11-9-1995; Ord. 1997-O-3, 4-10-1997; Ord. 1999-O-1, 4-8-1999; Ord.
1999-O-3, 6-17-1999; Ord. 2014-O-3, 3-13-2014; Ord. 2018-O-3, 8-14-2018; Ord. 2020-O-5, 10-
14-2020; Ord. 2022-O-2, 3-9-2022)


ORDINANCE 2023-O-1
