                                        STAFF REPORT
To:       Town of Alta Mayor & Town Council
From: Cameron Platt Polly McLean, Town Attorneys
Date: April 5, 2023
Re:       Revised Town Manager Code


Following feedback from the Mayor and Councilmember Byrne, the draft ordinances create the
position of Town Manager. The main differences from prior drafts are as follows:
    • Separated the creation/description of town manager position into two ordinances due to
        the different voting thresholds for each.
    • Ordinance 2023-O-2 creates and describes the town manager duties – simple majority
        vote of Council.
    • Ordinance 2023-O-3 delegates most of the mayor's executive authority to the town
        manager - "super majority"
    • Removed the "reappointment" every two years language in Alta Code 1-6-4.
    • Town manager appoints all other town officers (as written in the draft ordinance).
            o Mayor prefers to keep Town Marshal as reporting to the Mayor and not the town
                manager but is open to discussion with the Council on this.
    • Removal of any appointed officer requires majority vote of the Council.
    • The ordinances keeps the Mayor's appointment of the town manager and planning
        commission members with the advice and consent of the Council.
Bonding Amount
Code section 1-15-1(D) requires a bond for the Town Manager. This is based on other
municipalities code language and is provided for under Utah law.1 The amount the Council
chooses should be sufficient to cover any potential liability for actions or decisions of the Town
Manager. The amounts from other municipalities range from none, $60,000.00, and up to
$1,000,000.00. The Utah State Money Management Council publishes regulations for bonding
based on the size of the municipal budget. These regulations are for municipal treasurer, but
could also have some correlation the Town Manager. The bonding range for the Town’s budget
are between $70,000.00 and $300,000.00.
The Council should select an amount for a Town Manager bond if it chooses.
Replacement of Terms
The implementation of a Town Manager require updates to the Town’s existing code language in
28 sections to replace “Town Administrator” with “Town Manager.” Ordinance 2023-O-2,
Exhibit 2 is a redline format of existing code and the changes in titles to “Town Manager.”



1
    UCA § 10-3-831.
