                                      TOWN OF ALTA
                                        ALTA, UTAH
                                 Ordinance No. 2023-_________

AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 10, CHAPTER 6 OF THE TOWN CODE OF
ALTA, UTAH TO ADOPT A NEW ARTICLE F (RECREATION RESORT OVERLAY)
TO ESTABLISH A NEW OVERLAY DISTRICT FOR TOWN OF ALTA.

      WHEREAS, the Town of Alta (the “Town”) is an incorporated municipality in Salt Lake
County, Utah; and

       WHEREAS, the Town Council of the Town (the “Town Council”) is authorized by law to
enact ordinances for the protection of the health, safety, and welfare of the Town; and

       WHEREAS, the Town Council is authorized by law to enact and amend land use
ordinances, including ordinances to establish new overlay districts, and zoning map amendments;
and

       WHEREAS, on _________________, the Planning Commission for the Town (the
“Planning Commission”) held a legal noticed public hearing to consider enacting a new Article F
“Recreation Resort Overlay” to Chapter 10-6 of the Town Code of Alta, Utah; and

       WHEREAS, the Planning Commission found that [____________________]

        WHEREAS, after public hearings before the Planning Commission and the Town Council,
the Town Council has determined, in the exercise of its legislative discretion, that it is in the best
interests of the Town to approve the creation of the Recreation Resort Overlay on the terms set
forth in Exhibit A, attached hereto and incorporated herein by this reference; and

       NOW, THEREFORE, be it ordained by the Town Council of Town, Utah:

        SECTION 1. An overlay district is established to facilitate desirable development and use
of land within the Town in accordance with the terms set forth in Exhibit A, and in the locations
identified in the Town’s zoning map on file with the town clerk, which is hereby amended to reflect
the establishment of this overlay district.

        SECTION 2. The forgoing overlay district is applied to the real property described on
the attached Exhibit B and the Town’s zoning map on file with the town clerk shall be amended
to reflect the application of the overlay.

       SECTION 3. This ordinance shall take effect immediately upon passage.


       Passed by the Town Council of Alta, Utah this _____ day of ___________, 2023.
                                             Exhibit A


                    ARTICLE F. RECREATION RESORT OVERLAY

SECTION:
10-6F-1: Overlay Map
10-6F-2: Purpose
10-6F-3: Permitted Uses
10-6F-4: Conditional Uses
10-6F-5: Lot Area and Slope Requirements
10-6F-6: Yard Regulations
10-6F-7: Height Requirements
10-6F-8: Maximum Lot Coverage
10-6F-9: Density Regulations
10-6F-10: Wastewater System RRO
10-6F-11: Special Regulations
10-6F-12: Petitions to Apply the RRO
10-6F-13: Development Agreements


10-6F-1: OVERLAY MAP:

The Recreation Resort Overlay zoning district or "RRO" applies to property within the Town of
Alta shown on the Recreation Resort Overlay map on file at the Town of Alta.

10-6E-2: PURPOSE:

The purpose of the RRO is to facilitate residential, resort and commercial uses in appropriate areas,
in order to preserve and protect the scenic beauty and sensitive natural environment of the Town
of Alta, and to facilitate recreational uses in the community.

10-6F-3: PERMITTED USES:

All permitted uses in the underlying zone shall be permitted uses in the RRO. The following uses
shall also be permitted in the RRO. The permitted uses in the RRO are as follows:

       Accessory uses and structures customarily incidental to a permitted use;
       Commercial and private recreation;
       Condominium Project;
       Hotel;
       Living quarters for persons employed on the premises of any Main Use;
       Offices incidental to Main Use;
       Parking lot and the parking of motor vehicles accessory to the permitted uses herein;
       Restaurant; and
        Storage of materials accessory to permitted uses, provided all such storage is located
        within a structure.
Permitted uses in the RRO are subject to sections 10-6F-5 through and including 10-6F-13 of
this Article F, notwithstanding conflicting standards in the underlying zone.

10-6F-4: CONDITIONAL USES:

Any conditional uses in the underlying zone that are not permitted uses in the RRO, shall be
conditional uses in the RRO. All conditional uses in the RRO are subject to sections 10-6F-5
through and including 10-6F-13 of this Article F, notwithstanding conflicting standards in the
underlying zone.

10-6F-5: LOT AREA AND SLOPE REQUIREMENTS:

       The minimum area where the RRO may be applied is four (4) acres.

       The area where the RRO is applied shall be considered one lot for development purposes,
       regardless of the number of lots or parcels included in the area where the RRO is applied.

       In the RRO no buildings shall be permitted on any portion of the area where the ground
       slope exceeds thirty percent (30%). Where exceptional and extraordinary conditions exist,
       relief may be granted by the appeal authority pursuant to chapter 5 of this title.

10-6F-6: YARD REGULATIONS:

       Because of the unique nature of topography and climatic conditions within the town, side
       yard, rear and front setbacks shall not be required.

10-6F-7: HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS:

       Building height shall extend no more than forty feet (40’) above the adjacent public road
       as measured at centerline of road. Stairs and elevator overruns, mechanical appurtenances
       and enclosures, and architectural features may exceed the maximum height by ten feet
       (10’).

10-6F-8: MAXIMUM LOT COVERAGE:

       The maximum building footprint permitted within the RRO shall not exceed thirty-five
       percent (35%) of a lot in the RRO area, not include driveways.


10-6F-9: DENSITY REGULATIONS:

       The density for projects in the RRO shall be limited as described below. These densities
       are not exclusive, as a project may contain both types of units.
         A. The maximum density for hotels shall be at a rate of fourteen (14) guestrooms per
            acre. Hotel guestrooms in the RRO means a lodging room without kitchen, and
            the square footage for which shall not exceed seven hundred (700) feet per room,
            excluding hallways.
         B. The maximum density for residential condominium units shall be at a rate of eight
            (8) units per acre. There is not a maximum square footage for a condominium
            unit.
         C. For projects including both condominiums and hotel units in the same building, at
            least sixty percent (60%) of the total number of residential condominium units
            and hotel guest rooms, shall be hotel guest rooms.

10-6F-10: WASTEWATER SYSTEM RRO

     Prior to submittal for a building permit for any occupied structure in the RRO, the
     applicant shall submit a will serve letter from the operator of a public sewer system.

10-6F-11: SPECIAL REGULATIONS

  A. Natural Hazards: Construction of permanent or temporary structures shall not be
     permitted, erected, established or performed in such a manner as to place real and personal
     property and/or individuals at unreasonable risk of harm or injury from natural, geographic,
     or topographic hazards, including, but not limited to, floods, landslides, avalanches, a high
     water table, or inordinate soil erosion. In addition to compliance with the provisions of the
     building code governing topographic, structural, construction and design standards
     necessary to meet the maximum foreseeable risk of such hazards, persons developing,
     improving, managing or owning such property shall have the obligation and bear the
     burden of so developing and/or improving the property in such a manner that the property
     and/or the general public are safeguarded from unreasonable risk of harm or injury from
     such natural hazards to the satisfaction of the planning commission and the building
     official.

  B. Board Of Health Approval: Prior to issuance of a conditional use permit by the planning
     commission or the town council, or issuance of a building permit by the building official,
     approval of all uses, regardless of size or number of units, shall be given in writing by the
     Salt Lake Valley Health Department, who shall certify as to the adequacy of the culinary
     water system and the sewage system. The approval of all culinary water and sewage
     facilities shall be in accordance with the regulations of the Salt Lake Valley Health
     Department.

  C. Building Materials: Buildings shall be designed to preserve the natural beauty of the
     canyon area. Only those building materials which will blend harmoniously into the natural
     environment shall be permitted. The use of wood and stone and other harmonious materials
     is encouraged.

  D. Grading: To reduce the possibility of erosion and eliminate unsightly scars on the
     mountain slopes, all excavation, grading and cut and fill operations shall be done under the
     strict control and approval of the building official, in accordance with applicable law. All
   areas disturbed by construction activities shall be revegetated and maintained in accordance
   with an approved plan. No certificate of occupancy for any project shall be issued by the
   building official until all revegetation is complete, or adequate financial assurance is
   provided if seasonal conditions are not conducive to revegetation.

E. Natural Vegetation: All existing and proposed vegetation shall be shown on the approved
   site plan, and existing vegetation shall not be removed except as shown thereon. The design
   of the project shall be such as to retain as much of the existing natural vegetation as
   possible.

F. Stream Regulations:

       1. Within the RRO, no dwelling, building, or structure shall be constructed, raised or
          established within fifty feet (50') from the high water line of any Waterway or
          within ten feet (10’) from the Top of Bank as determined by the building official.

       2. Notwithstanding (1) above, on any property owned by the U.S. Forest Service,
          structures which are not buildings and are for commercial recreation ski area
          operation or campground operations, such as, without limitation, lift towers, signs,
          avalanche control devices, snowmaking equipment, picnic tables and fire pits, are
          exempt from the applicable setbacks so long as such structures comply with
          requirements of the regulatory bodies having jurisdiction, including US Forest
          Service, U.S. Army Corp Engineers, State Engineer's Office, Utah Division of
          Water Rights, Salt Lake Valley Health Department, and the Salt Lake City Division
          of Public Utilities and such approval, if required by the regulatory bodies having
          jurisdiction, shall be submitted to the building official prior to the structure being
          put in place. Written notification of the installation or construction of any structure,
          whether or not an approval from the regulatory bodies is required, must be given to
          the building official prior to the structure being put in place or any site preparation
          for the structure.

       3. The approved site plan shall depict the Waterway and Top of Bank setbacks and
          also indicate the extent and specific design of the proposed method of control of
          erosion during and after construction activities, including activities to build
          driveways, access roads or other improvements over or through a Waterway or Top
          of Bank. The complete, approved erosion control system shall be installed and
          approved by the building official prior to commencement of any construction
          activities on any site.

G. Rehabilitation of Existing Landscape Scars: In conjunction with submission of plans and
   documents for building permit plan or conditional use approval, the applicant shall submit
   for approval a detailed program for rehabilitation of existing scars on the landscape, if any,
   caused by unused roads, mine dumps, excavation, construction or other causes. A financial
   assurance, in an amount determined by the building official in accordance with applicable
   law, covering such rehabilitation program shall be deposited with the town to ensure that
   such rehabilitation will be completed. No certificate of occupancy shall be issued by the
     building official until all approved rehabilitation work is complete or adequate financial
     assurance is provided if seasonal conditions are not conducive to revegetation.

  H. Parking Requirements:
        1. The following minimum parking standard shall be met:
                 i. Condo/residential unit - 1.5 spaces per condominium/residential unit
                ii. Hotel room - 1 space per every 2 hotel units
               iii. Restaurant – 1 space per every 125 square feet of gross floor area
        2. Tandem parking is permitted.
        3. Covered parking is encouraged in the RRO.
        4. Parking for any other use not addressed by the above shall comply with the
            requirements of the underlying zoning district.

  I. Utilities: All utility lines shall be placed underground.

  J. Mechanical Screening:

         1.    Rooftop elements shall be setback at least five feet (5') from the edge of the
              structure and fifteen feet (15') from the north or south building facades.

         2.    All rooftop elements, except for flagpoles and windsocks, must be architecturally
              screened to:

                  i. Not detract from the natural environment of the canyon;
                 ii. Not adversely affect views from neighbors or canyon visitors; and
                iii. Be harmonious with the base structure.


10-6F-12: PETITIONS TO APPLY THE RRO:

  A. Content of Petition: Any request to apply the Recreation Resort Overlay to a particular area
     within the town shall require a written and verified petition be submitted to the town clerk.
     Said petition shall include the following elements:

         1. The full name and address of the petitioner.

         2. A statement of all legal, contractual and equitable interest in the property as to
            which the overlay application is sought, including the names and addresses of all
            such individuals.

         3. A legal description by metes and bounds, or otherwise, of the area as to which the
            overlay is sought.

         4. A statement as to the reasons and basis for the application of the overlay.
          5. If real property is to be developed pursuant to the proposed application of the
             overlay, a statement of the concept plans and documents relating to such
             development, including those elements as required in sections 10-6F-3 through and
             including 10-6F-9 of this article. The petitioner shall attach two (2) copies of the
             concept plans and other documents as may be necessary to describe the nature,
             character and extent of the proposed development as to which the petition relates.


   B. Fees: At the time the petition is filed, the applicant shall also pay to the town clerk all
      required fees as set by resolution of the town council.

   C. Planning Commission Review: Upon receipt of any petition filed under this section and
      payment of all appropriate fees by petitioner, the town clerk shall forward forthwith such
      petition and all attachments to the chairperson of the planning commission for review,
      analysis and recommendation by that commission pursuant to law at the next regularly
      scheduled meeting of the commission. The commissions shall make a recommendation to
      the town council.

   D. Town Council Approval: Upon receipt of the planning commission recommendation, the
      town clerk shall forward forthwith such petition and all attachments to the town council for
      review, analysis and action by the council pursuant to law at the next regularly scheduled
      meeting of the town council.

10-6F-13: DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT:

A development agreement, or modification of an existing development agreement, shall be
required for all projects seeking to be within the RRO. Such development agreement shall
contain the following sections:

   A. Development Rights and Responsibilities. The development agreement shall include the
      approved development rights of the project and responsible parties for completion of
      project elements including, but not limited to, the following:

          1. Entitlements granted to the property,
          2. Any phasing of the development,
          3. Construction and maintenance of public improvements,
          4. Special conditions relating to lot design, necessary off-site conditions or
             improvements, open space and parks, location of utilities, physical characteristics
             of the property; and
          5. Any other conditions or methodologies necessary for the project’s buildout.

   B. Amendments. The development agreement shall include sections for amendments to the
      agreement.
   Exhibit B
Legal Description
