                                         Town of Alta
                                 ORDINANCE #2023 – O – 2
 ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 1-6-4 “APPOINTMENT OF TOWN OFFICIALS,”
ENACTING TITLE 1-15 “TOWN MANAGER OFFICE CREATED,” AND REPLACING
     THE TERM “TOWN ADMINISTRATOR” WITH “TOWN MANAGER”
                    THROUGHOUT THE TOWN CODE

        WHEREAS, the Town of Alta (“Town”) Town Council ("Council) has examined the
effectiveness of the Town’s administration and determined that clarifying and reorganizing the
administration is necessary; and
       WHEREAS, the Mayor and Council positions are not full-time positions; and
       WHEREAS, the demands of administering the business of the Town have steadily
increased over time; and
       WHEREAS, the Council desires to “right size” the Mayor’s duties and provide authority
and direction on managing the Town; and
        WHEREAS, the Council wishes to create the position of Town Manager, describe the
duties and framework of the position, and delegate some executive duties of the Mayor to that
position.
       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by Alta Town Council of, Utah, that:
        SECTION I. AMENDED. Title 1, Chapter 6, Section 4 “Appointment of Town Officials”
is hereby amended as follows:

1-6-4: APPOINTMENT OF TOWN OFFICIALS:
 A. Town Manager Appointment: When a vacancy exists in the town manager position, On or
    before the first Monday in February following a town election, the mayor will nominate
    candidate/s for appointment. The town council, with the advice and consent of the town
    council, shall then appoint a qualified personnominee to each of the offices of town clerk,
    town treasurer, town marshal andas town administratormanager by majority vote.
 B. When a vacancy occurs in the office of town marshal, town clerk, town treasurer, or other
    appointed town office, the town manager shall appoint a qualified person, with the advice
    and consent of the town council, to fill the vacancy.
 A.C. Removal of Town Officials: Any appointed official may be removed from office by a
    majority vote of the town council.
 B.D. Ex Officio Auditor: The town clerk is ex officio the town auditor and shall perform the
    duties of that office.
        SECTION II. ENACTED. Title 1, Chapter 15 TOWN MANAGER is hereby enacted as
written in the attached Exhibit 1.
       SECTION III. AMENDED. All references to “town administrator” in Town Code are
hereby amended to the term “town manager” as written in the attached Exhibit 2.

      SECTION IV. Effective Date. This resolution shall be effective upon publication.

      PASSED AND APPROVED by the Town of Alta Town Council, Utah, this _____ day of
________________ in the year 2023.


                                          TOWN OF ALTA




                                          Roger Bourke, Mayor

ATTEST:


Jen Clancy, Town Clerk

Ordinance/summary published on Utah state noticing website on ____________________.
Effective date of Ordinance: ____________________
                                         EXHIBIT 1


1-15-1 TOWN MANAGER OFFICE CREATED; ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS

Office Created: The office of the Town Manager, which shall be known as "Town Manager", is
created and established pursuant to Utah code section 10-3b-403. The Town Manager shall be
referred to as the Town Manager and is the chief administrative officer of the Town.

   A. Control: The powers, duties and functions of the office of Town Manager shall be subject
      to the control and policies of the Town pursuant to Town ordinance and resolution.

   B. Appointment or Removal: The Town Manager shall be appointed or removed pursuant to
      1-6-4.

   C. Employment Agreement: Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as a limitation on the
      power or authority of the Town Council to enter into any employment agreement with the
      Town Manager with additional terms and conditions of employment not inconsistent with
      any provisions of this chapter.

   D. Salary: The salary and other compensation of the Town Manager shall be established by
      the Town Council in accordance with Utah law.

   E. Office And Time Spent: The Town Manager shall maintain an office in the Town offices
      and shall spend such time in the performance of the duties of Town Manager as is
      necessary or required to perform the duties as assigned in Town ordinance or resolution.
      The Town Manager shall not accept any outside employment in addition to employment
      by the Town without prior approval of the Town Council.

   F. Residence: The Town Manager need not be a resident of the Town at the time of the
      Town Manager's appointment or thereafter.

   G. Resignation: Before voluntarily resigning from the position of Town Manager, the Town
      Manager shall give the Town Council at least sixty (60) days' written notice of his or her
      intent to resign.

1-15-2 TOWN MANAGER DUTIES & OBLIGATIONS

   A. Town Manager Duties: Pursuant to the policies and programs established by the Town
      Council, and under the oversight of the Mayor and Town Council by ordinance,
      resolution, motion, or this code, the Town Manager shall:

          1. Manage the internal affairs of the Town; develop, recommend and implement
             Town policies, practices, rules, regulations and procedures; report to the Mayor
             and Town Council at least monthly; advise the Town Council regarding policy
             options and implementation procedures; carry out legislative directives and
             decisions; and administer contracts.

          2. Establish and maintain effective working relationships with the Mayor, Town
             Council, Town staff, Town officers, employees, citizen committees, special
             interest groups, media, contractors, public vendors and representatives from other
   municipal, county, special district, state and federal agencies.

3. Conduct performance evaluations and administer pay adjustments subject to the
   approved budget.

4. Consistent with Town ordinance, resolution, motions, and policy be responsible
   for the full and effective use of Town personnel by establishing, in consultation
   with the Town attorney, Town officers and other management employees, overall
   department objectives, priorities and standards consistent with the goals,
   direction, and objectives of the Town Council; serve as a facilitator in the
   achievement by Town departments of Town Council goals by coordinating
   effective implementation of Town service levels, ordinances, resolutions, rules,
   regulations and directives; exercise managerial control to ensure that the Town
   government and its respective departments function in the most efficient and
   effective manner.

5. Except for the purpose of inquiry, the Mayor, Town Council and its members
   shall deal with the administration solely through the Town Manager and, neither
   the Council nor any member thereof or the Mayor, shall give orders to any
   subordinates of the Town Manager, either publicly or privately.

6. Represent the Town at various meetings or other functions and respond to
   requests or inquiries about Town policies, rules, ordinances, regulations,
   resolutions or services rendered by the Town government.

7. Enforce all applicable laws, ordinances, rules, regulations, and policies of the
   Town. Assure that all franchises, leases, permits, licenses, contracts and privileges
   granted by the Town are fully performed and observed.

8. Recommend and prepare for consideration by the Town Council and advisory
   committees long range strategic plans and programs to provide for the health,
   safety, and welfare of the current and future inhabitants of the Town; furnish
   reports to the Town Council as requested.

9. Except as otherwise provided, be responsible for the overall personnel
   management, function, and implementation of Town personnel ordinances, rules,
   and regulations that have been adopted, approved, or revised by the Town
   Council; coordinate personnel ordinances and rules and regulations adopted by
   the Town Council; coordinate personnel functions with staff such as recruitment,
   selection, and appointment; monitor personnel actions, promotion, discipline,
   demotion, separation and reclassification; coordinate personnel decisions with
   department directors; coordinate activities of individuals rendering professional
   services under contract with the Town.

10. Exercise general supervision over all buildings, parks, and other public property
    under the control and jurisdiction of the Town.

11. The Town Manager may examine and inspect the books, records, and official
    papers of any office, department, agency, board, or commission of the Town and
    make investigations and require reports from or about all personnel.
       12. The Town Manager shall promptly notify the Mayor and Town Council of any
           emergency existing in the Town, or in a Town department or body.

       13. Create all necessary departments as approved by the Town Council. Create all
           necessary departments, sections, and offices necessary for the government of the
           Town; prepare recommendations for the Town Council regarding the addition,
           deletion, or reduction in municipal services.

       14. Attend and participate in all meetings of the Town Council unless otherwise
           excluded by the Town Council in a closed executive session, but shall not have a
           right to vote in Town Council meetings.

       15. Perform all other duties and obligations, and exercise the powers set forth by
           ordinance, resolution, regulation, or directive imposed by the Town Council.

B. Department Cooperation: It shall be the duty of all employees to cooperate with the Town
   Manager in administering the affairs of the Town efficiently, economically, and
   harmoniously.

C. Planning And Land Use: Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Town Manager shall
   exercise no authority over the planning commission or an appeal and variance hearing
   officer.

D. Performance Evaluation: The Town Council shall periodically evaluate, at least once
   every three years, the performance of the Town Manager.

E. Powers Of The Mayor Not Delegated: Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to
   delegate to the Town Manager the legislative and judicial powers of the mayor, the
   mayor's position as chief executive officer of the Town pursuant to Utah code section 10-
   3b-104(1)(a), chairperson of the Town Council, or any ex officio position which the
   mayor shall hold.
                                           EXHIBIT 2


8-3-3: SUPERINTENDENT:
There is hereby created the position of superintendent of the sewer department. The
superintendent of the sewer department shall manage and supervise the Town sewer system
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter and pursuant to resolutions, rules and regulations
adopted by the town council from time to time prescribing his powers and duties and directing
the manner and frequency with which he shall make reports to the mayor relating to the sewer
system. All of the functions and activities of the superintendent shall be carried on under the
direction of the mayor and may be performed pursuant to an interlocal agreement wherein the
manager or superintendent of the contracting agency shall serve as the superintendent for the
town. Absent an interlocal agreement, the town administratortown manager shall serve as the
superintendent.

8-3-6: PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL:
  A. Permitted: Where a public sanitary sewer is not available within three hundred feet (300')
of the building, the building sewer shall be connected to a private wastewater disposal system
complying with the provisions of this section.
  B. Permit Required: Before commencement of construction of a private wastewater disposal
system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit issued by the town. The application for such
permit shall be made on a form furnished by the town, which the applicant shall supplement by
any plans, specifications and other information as deemed necessary. A permit and inspection fee
shall be paid to the town at the time the application is filed.
  C. Inspections: Permission to use the system for a private wastewater disposal system shall
not be authorized until the installation is completed in compliance with the approved plans
applicable with all state and local codes and this chapter. Authorized town employees or
representatives shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of construction. The applicant
for the permit shall notify the town administratortown manager when the work is ready for final
inspection and before any underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made
within two (2) business days of the receipt of notice by the town administratortown manager.
  D. Compliance With State: The type, capacities, location and layout of a private wastewater
disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of the state department of environmental
quality. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any natural outlet.
  E. When Public Sewer Available: At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a
property served by a private wastewater disposal system, the owner shall make a direct
connection to the public sewer within sixty (60) days after receiving, and subject to, notice of
availability from the town, in compliance with this chapter, and shall pay the quarterly fee to the
town, and the private disposal system shall be disconnected and made inoperable.
  F. Operation And Maintenance: When a public sewer is not available, the owner shall operate
and maintain the private wastewater disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, and at no
expense to the town. All private wastewater shall be disposed of at the sewer dump station
located within the town. (Ord. 1994-O-1, 1-13-1994)
 G. Wastewater disposal within Upper Albion Basin Protection Overlay Zone:
   1. Where a public sanitary sewer is available, buildings constructed within the Upper
Albion Basin Protection Overlay Zone shall be connected to the public system using AWWA C-
900 pipe.
    2. If connection to a public sanitary system is not available, a private wastewater disposal
system shall be installed which shall meet the following requirements:
     a. Written approval by the Salt Lake Valley health department.
     b. Disposal system shall consist of holding tank(s) equipped with an effective alarm
system that remotely notifies the property owner and the Town of Alta in the event that the
holding tank reaches seventy five percent (75%) of full level.
      c. Disposal system shall be equipped with an automatic water shut-off feature to the
building in the event that the holding tank reaches seventy five percent (75%) of full level.
     d. Building owner shall maintain and submit to the Town of Alta pumping records for
each holding tank at least once every year.
    3. Section 8-3-6 (G)(2) does not apply to lots within the UABPOZ which contain dwellings
that existed at the time this ordinance was passed except if the dwelling is renovated or
remodeled to the degree that the Building Code requires the structure to meet current standards,
then the dwelling shall meet the requirements of subsection 2 above.

9-1-5: OUTSIDE AGENCY APPROVAL FOR DEVELOPMENT PRIOR TO PLANNING
COMMISSION REVIEW:
  A. Each real property development proposal brought to the town must have evidence of
approval from each of the following agencies or political subdivisions of the United States
government or state government prior to submission to the town planning commission for further
action. Said agencies or political subdivisions are: Salt Lake City department of public utilities,
water division; Salt Lake Valley health department and division of water quality; Salt Lake
Valley health department, environmental health division; Salt Lake County service area no. 3;
Cottonwood improvement district; Utah department of transportation; U.S. army corps of
engineers; town marshal department; and unified fire authority.
  B. The town administratortown manager shall provide a list of the entities set forth in
subsection A of this section with contact information to those seeking to develop within the
town. The town administratortown manager is given the authority to change the agency or
political subdivision on said list in the event the same governmental review function is
transferred to another office. Entities may be added to this list without amending this section on
the condition that the town administratortown manager inform the town council at a public
meeting of a new entity exercising jurisdiction over development.
9-1A-3: FEES BASED ON REASONABLE PLAN:
  A. Prior to the granting of a building permit on any development activity, an impact fee
analysis shall be undertaken to determine the amount of impact fees which can be collected by
the town consistent with the requirements of section 9-1A-2 of this article. Said study shall be
performed by a qualified engineering firm or other firm showing demonstrated expertise in the
field of impact fee analysis and calculation. Said firm shall be mutually agreed upon by the town
administratortown manager and the developer; however, if agreement cannot be reached, the
names of three (3) such firms shall be submitted to the town council, which shall, after allowing
comment from the developer and the town administratortown manager, choose a firm to conduct
the study. In lieu of the foregoing procedure, a developer may request that the town staff conduct
a less formal impact fee analysis, the fee for which shall be mutually agreed upon. The cost of
either study shall be borne by the developer.
 B. The impact fee analysis study shall:
   1. Identify the impact on system improvements required by the development activity;
   2. Demonstrate how those impacts on system improvements are reasonably related to the
development activity;
    3. Estimate the proportionate share of the costs of impacts on other system improvements
that are reasonably related to the new development activity; and
    4. Identify how the impact fee was calculated, based on the factors and requirements set
forth in this article and in Utah Code Annotated section 11-36-201(5), as amended.
 C. If applicable, the impact fee analysis shall identify:
   1. The cost of existing public facilities;
   2. The manner of financing existing public facilities;
    3. The relative extent to which the newly developed properties and the other properties in
the town have already contributed to the cost of existing public facilities, by means as user
charges, special assessments, or payment from the proceeds of general taxes;
    4. The relative extent to which the newly developed properties and the other properties in
the town will contribute to the cost of existing public facilities in the future;
    5. The extent to which the newly developed properties are entitled to a credit because the
town is requiring their developers or owners to provide common facilities, inside or outside the
proposed development, that have been provided by the town and financed through general
taxation or other means, apart from user charges, in other parts of the town;
   6. Extraordinary costs, if any, in servicing the newly developed properties; and
   7. The time price differential inherent in fair comparisons of amounts paid at different
times.

10-1-6: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this title, certain words and terms are defined as follows: Words used in the
present tense include the future, words in the singular number include the plural and the plural
the singular.

 AGRICULTURE:             The tilling of the soil, the raising of crops, horticulture and gardening,
                          but not including the keeping or raising of domestic animals or fowl,
                          except household pets, and not including any agricultural industry or
                          business, such as fruit packing plants, fur farms, animal hospitals or
                          similar uses.

 ALLEY:                   Any public way or thoroughfare less than sixteen feet (16'), but not less
                          than ten feet (10') in width, which has been dedicated or deeded to the
                          public for public use.

 APARTMENT                Any building or portion thereof which contains three (3) or more
 HOUSE:                   dwelling units and, for the purpose of this title, includes residential
                          condominiums.

 APPEAL                   The person, board, commission, agency or other body designated by
 AUTHORITY:               town ordinance to decide an appeal of a decision of a land use application
                          or variance.

 BASEMENT:                Any floor level below the first story in a building, except that a floor
                          level in a building having only one floor level shall be classified as a
                          basement unless such floor level qualifies as a first "story", as defined in
                          this section.

 BUILDING:                Any Structure or any part thereof, built or used for the support, shelter,
                          or enclosure of any use or occupancy by person, animals, or chattel.

 BUILDING,                Any detached building used or intended for supporting or sheltering any
 ACCESSORY:               use or occupancy subordinate and clearly incidental to that of the main
                          building and located on the same lot occupied by the main building.

 BUILDING HEIGHT:         The vertical distance from the lower of Established Grade or Finished
                          Grade to the highest point of the structure excluding Rooftop Elements.

 BUILDING, MAIN:          The principal building or one of the principal buildings upon a lot that is
                          used primarily for the principal use.

 CARETAKER:               An owner or a person employed by the owner of a private, residential
                          dwelling to reside within the building and to provide primarily
                          maintenance, custodial and security services; or, a property management
                          services company, licensed by the Town of Alta, which does not have an
                  employee who resides within the building, but which provides
                  maintenance, custodial and security services.

CARETAKER UNIT:   A living area within a dwelling which is separated physically from the
                  remainder of the dwelling or annexed to the dwelling, the purpose for
                  which is to house an on premises "caretaker", as defined in this section.
                  The owner shall certify to the town in writing that a caretaker unit shall
                  be occupied only by a caretaker.

CARPORT:          A private garage not completely enclosed by walls or doors. For
                  purposes of this title, a carport shall be subject to all of the regulations
                  prescribed for a private garage.

CHILD NURSERY:    An establishment for the care and/or instruction, whether or not for
                  compensation, of six (6) or more children other than members of the
                  family residing on the premises.

CLASS A BEER      A place of business wherein beer is sold in original containers to be
OUTLET:           consumed off the premises in accordance with the alcoholic beverage
                  control act of Utah and the licensing ordinance of the town.

CLASS B BEER      A place of business wherein beer is sold in original containers for
OUTLET:           consumption on or off the premises in accordance with the alcoholic
                  beverage control act of Utah and the licensing ordinance of the town.

CLASS C BEER      A place of business wherein draft beer or beer in original containers is
OUTLET:           sold for consumption on or off the premises in accordance with the
                  alcoholic beverage control act of Utah and the licensing ordinance of the
                  town.

COMMERCIAL        The renting of real property for terms of thirty (30) days or less, or other
RENTAL:           impermanent or transitory lodging use lacking in stability or continuity
                  of persons occupying real property.

CONDITIONAL       A use of land for which a conditional use permit is required pursuant to
USE:              Chapter 9 of this title.

CONDOMINIUM       A. A real estate plan or project whereby two (2) or more units, whether
PROJECT:          contained in an existing or proposed building or buildings, are separately
                  offered or proposed to be offered for sale. "Condominium project" shall
                  also mean the property when the context so requires.
                  B. The owner or developer of any condominium project or "time period
                  unit" project, as defined in this section, shall comply with the Utah
                  condominium ownership act, Utah Code Annotated title 57, chapter 8,
                    which is hereby incorporated within and made a part of this title by
                    reference. Such owner or developer shall also comply with all pertinent
                    provisions of all chapters of this title.

CONFERENCE:         A gathering and consisting of multipurpose meeting facilities, typically
                    consisting of one or more meeting or multipurpose rooms that are
                    available for use by various groups for such activities as meetings and
                    receptions.

COURT:              An occupied space on a lot, other than a yard, that is designed to be
                    partially or completely surrounded by group dwellings.

DISTRICT:           A portion of the Town of Alta.

DWELLING:           Any building or portion thereof which contains not more than two (2)
                    dwelling units.

DWELLING,           A group of two (2) or more dwellings located on a parcel of land in one
GROUP:              ownership and having any yard or court in common.

DWELLING,       A building used or intended to be occupied by more than two (2)
MULTIPLE-FAMILY "families", as defined in this section.
:

DWELLING,           A building used or intended to be occupied by one "family", as defined
SINGLE-FAMILY:      in this section.

DWELLING, TWO-      A building used or intended to be occupied by two (2) "families", as
FAMILY:             defined in this section.

DWELLING UNIT:      Any building or portion thereof which contains living facilities,
                    including provisions for sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation, as
                    required by this title, for not more than one family. For purposes of
                    determining maximum density of dwelling units for all uses in any FM
                    zone, two (2) guestrooms shall be equivalent to one dwelling unit.

EFFICIENCY          A dwelling unit containing only one habitable room.
DWELLING UNIT:

ELEMENTS,           Chimneys, flues, and similar venting apparatus; communications
ROOFTOP:            equipment such as antennas and satellite dishes; elevator penthouses;
                    stair enclosures; rooftop railings; mechanical equipment such as heating,
                    ventilation, and air conditioning systems; renewable energy production
                    systems such as solar panels and wind turbines; other mechanical
                    equipment used for operation of a building; flag poles; and wind socks
                       or any such allowed rooftop item which protrudes or is located on top of
                       the building.

EROSION                Channels which have been created by erosion but which do not normally
CHANNELS:              contain or convey water, except during local rainstorm, snowmelt, or
                       runoff events. Riparian vegetation or habitat, as evidenced by the
                       presence of hydrophilic plants or other evidence are not supported by
                       Erosion Channels. For purposes of this Title, Erosion Channels are not
                       Waterways.

FAMILY OR              An individual or two (2) or more persons related by blood or marriage,
FAMILIES:              or a group of not more than five (5) persons (excluding employees) who
                       need not be related by blood or marriage living together in a dwelling
                       unit.

FLOOR AREA:            The area included within the surrounding exterior walls of a building or
                       portion thereof, exclusive of vent shafts and courts. The floor area of a
                       building, or portion thereof, not provided with surrounding exterior walls
                       shall be the useable area under the horizontal projection of the roof or
                       floor above.

FOOTPRINT:             All exterior surfaces of an existing structure where actually located.

FRONTAGE:              All property fronting on one side of the street between intersecting or
                       intercepting streets, or between a street and a right of way, waterway,
                       end of dead end street, or political subdivision boundary, measured along
                       the street line. An intersecting or intercepting street shall determine only
                       the boundary of the frontage on the side of the street it intercepts.

GARAGE, PRIVATE: An accessory building designed or used for the storage of not more than
                 four (4) automobiles owned and used by the occupants of the building to
                 which it is accessory, provided that on the lot occupied by a multiple-
                 family dwelling, the private garage may be designed and used for the
                 storage of one and one-half (1-1/2) times as many automobiles as there
                 are dwelling units in the multiple-family dwelling. A garage shall be
                 considered part of a dwelling if the garage and the dwelling have a roof
                 or wall in common. A private garage may not be used for storage of more
                 than one truck for each family dwelling upon the premises, and no such
                 truck shall exceed two and one-half (2-1/2) tons capacity.

GARAGE, PUBLIC:        Any garage other than a private garage.

GRADE,                 The grade of the earth, whether natural or previously altered, that exists
ESTABLISHED:           before a site has been prepared or changed for purposes of development
                   or building. In areas where a building exists on the site, the building
                   official shall determine the established grade by extending the elevations
                   of the adjacent established grades where buildings do not exist through
                   the area of the existing building.

GRADE, FINISHED:   The finished and resulting grade where earth meets the structure at the
                   completion of the proposed construction.

GUEST:             Any person hiring or occupying a room for living or sleeping purposes,
                   or any person occupying a room or property for periods of thirty (30)
                   days or less.

GUESTHOUSE:        A separate dwelling located on a lot with one or more main dwellings
                   and used or intended for the housing of guests or servants and not rented,
                   leased or sold separate from the rental, lease or sale of the main dwelling.

GUEST-ROOM:        A. Any room or rooms used or intended to be used by a guest for
                   sleeping purposes. Every one hundred (100) square feet of total floor
                   area in a dormitory shall be considered to be a guestroom.
                   B. Within the base facilities zone, "guestroom" shall be defined as
                   every six hundred (600) square feet of total floor area within a structure,
                   and the remainder thereof.

HABITABLE          Space in a structure for living, sleeping, eating or cooking. Bathrooms,
SPACE:             toilet compartments, closets, halls, storage or utility space, and similar
                   areas, are not considered "habitable space".

HELIPORT:          An area of land or water, or a structural surface, which is used, or
                   intended for use, for the landing and takeoff of helicopters, and any
                   appurtenant areas which are used, or intended for use, for heliport
                   buildings and other heliport facilities.

HELISTOP:          The same as a "heliport", as defined in this section, except that no
                   refueling, maintenance, repairs or storage of helicopters is permitted.

HOME               Any use conducted entirely within a dwelling and carried on by one
OCCUPATION:        person residing in the dwelling, which use is clearly incidental and
                   secondary to the use of the dwelling for dwelling purposes and does not
                   change the character of the dwelling or property for residential purposes
                   and in connection with which there is no display nor stock in trade. The
                   home occupation shall not include the sale of commodities, except those
                   which are produced on the premises and shall not involve the use of any
                   accessory building or yard space for activity outside the main building
                   not normally associated with residential use. Parking for home
                  occupations shall be as follows: 1) one car for each twenty five feet (25')
                  of unobstructed and unrestricted frontage of the subject property; and 2)
                  available parking on the subject property where automobiles are
                  customarily parked. "Home occupation" shall include the care of not
                  more than six (6) children other than members of the family residing in
                  the dwelling.

HOTEL:            Any building containing guestrooms intended or designed to be used, or
                  which are used, rented or hired out to be occupied on a nightly basis, or
                  which are occupied for sleeping purposes by guests, and which may
                  include accessory facilities such as a lobby, meeting rooms, recreation
                  facilities, group dining facilities and other facilities customarily
                  associated with hotels. A "hotel" shall not include any building used for
                  residential purposes, including, but not limited to, condominiums and
                  single-family residences.

HOUSEHOLD PETS:   Animals and/or fowl ordinarily permitted in the house and kept for
                  company or pleasure, such as dogs, cats and canaries, including not more
                  than two (2) dogs or two (2) cats over four (4) months in age, and not
                  more than a total of four (4) animals. A "household pet" does not include
                  inherently or potentially dangerous animals, fowl or reptiles.

JUNKYARD:         The use of any lot or portion of a lot or tract of land for the storage,
                  keeping or abandonment of junk, including scrap metals or other scrap
                  material, or for the dismantling, demolition or abandonment of
                  automobiles or other vehicles, or machinery or parts thereof; provided,
                  that this definition shall be deemed not to include such uses which are
                  clearly accessory and incidental to any agricultural uses permitted in the
                  zone.

KENNEL:           The keeping of three (3) or more dogs at least four (4) months old.

LAND USE          All applications requiring approval from the land use authority pursuant
APPLICATION:      to Utah Code Annotated or Town of Alta ordinances.

LAND USE          A person, board, commission, agency or other body designated by the
AUTHORITY:        town council to act upon a land use application.

LAND USE          A planning, zoning, development, or subdivision ordinance of the Town
ORDINANCE:        of Alta made by legislative decision.

LODGING HOUSE:    Any building or portion thereof containing not more than five (5)
                  guestrooms where rent is paid in money, goods, labor or otherwise.
LOT:             A parcel of land occupied or to be occupied by a building or group of
                 buildings, together with such yards, open spaces, lot width and lot areas
                 as are required by this title, having frontage upon a street or upon a right
                 of way approved by the appeal authority, or upon a right of way not less
                 than sixteen feet (16') wide. Except for group dwellings and guesthouses,
                 not more than one dwelling may occupy one lot.

LOT, CORNER:     A lot abutting on two (2) intersecting or intercepting streets where the
                 interior angle of intersection or interception does not exceed one hundred
                 thirty five degrees (135°).

LOT, INTERIOR:   A lot other than a corner lot.

NAMEPLATES       Shall include:
AND/OR SIGNS:
                 A. One nameplate for each dwelling unit, not exceeding two (2) square
                 feet in area, indicating the name of the occupant or permitted home
                 occupation.
                 B. One sign board not exceeding eight (8) square feet in area
                 appertaining to the lease or sale of the property, or the sale of products
                 produced on the property, or warning against trespassing.
                 C. One bulletin board not exceeding eight (8) square feet in area for a
                 church or other institution for the purpose of displaying the name and
                 character of services or other activities conducted therein.
                 D. One identification sign not exceeding eight (8) square feet in area for
                 buildings other than dwellings.
                 E. All such bulletin boards and identification signs shall be attached to
                 and parallel with the front wall of the building. If any nameplate, bulletin
                 board or sign is illuminated, only indirect lighting shall be used. No
                 flashing or intermittent illumination shall be employed.

NET              The area of ground within a lot that satisfies all of the following
DEVELOPABLE      conditions:
ACREAGE:
                 A. Slope less than thirty percent (30%); and
                 B. Soils of a suitable depth and type based on soil exploration and
                 percolation tests in accordance with the regulations of the Utah
                 department of health to ensure against detriment to surface and
                 groundwater quality; and,
                 C. Not closer than fifty feet (50') from the high water line of any
                 Waterway and outside of the Top of Bank as determined by the building
                 official; and,
                 D. Notwithstanding subsection (C) above in the Upper Albion Basin
                 Protection Overlay Zone, not closer than one hundred feet (100') from
                 the high water line of any Waterway and at least twenty feet (20') from
                 the Top of Bank as determined by the building official; and,

                 E. Free from unreasonable risk of harm to the property and the general
                 public from natural hazards such as flood, landslide, avalanche, a high
                 water table, or inordinate soil erosion after full compliance with
                 applicable provisions of the building code governing topographic,
                 structural and general design standards necessary to meet the maximum
                 foreseeable risk of such hazards, and in discharge of the obligation
                 imposed upon any person so developing and/or improving property
                 subject to such natural hazards imposed by subsection 10-6A-9 of this
                 title.

NONCOMPLYING     A Structure, or portion thereof, that (1) legally existed prior to the current
STRUCTURE:       land use designation; and (2) because of subsequent land use ordinance
                 amendments, does not conform to the regulations that currently govern
                 the structure.

NONCONFORMING    A use of land that (1) legally existed prior to the current land use
USE:             designation; (2) has been maintained continuously since the time the
                 land use ordinance governing the land was amended; and (3) because of
                 subsequent land use ordinance amendments, does not conform to the
                 regulations that now govern the use of the land.

PACKAGE          Any outlet authorized by the Utah alcoholic beverage control
AGENCY:          commission to sell original package liquor or wine for consumption off
                 the premises.

PARKING LOT:     An open area, other than a street, used for parking of more than four (4)
                 automobiles or other vehicles.

PARKING SPACE:   An area within a building, lot or parking lot for parking or storage of one
                 automobile or other vehicle.

PERMITTED USE:   A use of land for which no conditional use permit is required.

PLANNED UNIT     A complete development plan for an area pursuant to Chapter 10 of this
DEVELOPMENT:     title.
PLANNING       The Town of Alta planning commission.
COMMISSION:

PRIVATE        A social club, recreational, athletic or similar association, incorporated
NONPROFIT      under the provisions of the Utah nonprofit corporation and cooperation
LOCKER CLUB:   act, which maintains or intends to maintain premises upon which liquor
               is or will be stored, consumed or sold.

PRIVATE        Nonprofit recreational grounds and facilities operated by an association
NONPROFIT      incorporated under the provisions of the Utah nonprofit corporation and
RECREATIONAL   cooperation act, or a corporate sole.
GROUNDS AND
FACILITIES:

PUBLIC USE:    A use operated exclusively by a public or quasi-public body, such use
               having the purpose of serving the public health, safety or general
               welfare, and including uses such as public schools, parks, playgrounds
               and other recreational facilities, administrative and service facilities, and
               public utilities.

QUASI-PUBLIC   A use operated by a private nonprofit, educational, religious,
USE:           recreational, charitable or philanthropic institution, such use having the
               purpose primarily of serving the general public, such as churches, private
               schools, universities and similar uses.

RECREATION,    The use of property for recreational facilities operated as a business and
COMMERCIAL:    open to the general public for a fee, such as ski lifts, golf driving ranges
               and baseball batting ranges.

REPAIR:        The reconstruction or renewal of any part of an existing building for the
               purpose of its maintenance.

RESTAURANT:    A place where meals or refreshments are sold to the public or guests for
               compensation.

STATE STORE:   An outlet for the sale of liquor located on premises owned and leased by
               the state of Utah.

STORY:         That portion of a building included between the upper surface of any
               floor and the upper surface of the floor next above, except that the
               topmost story shall be that portion of a building included between the
               upper surface of the topmost floor and the ceiling or roof above. If the
               finished floor level directly above a useable or unused under-floor space
               is more than six feet (6') above the Finished Grade, as defined in this
                   section, for more than fifty percent (50%) of the total perimeter, or is
                   more than twelve feet (12') above the Finished Grade, as defined in this
                   section, at any point, such useable or unused under-floor space shall be
                   considered as a story.

STREET:            Any thoroughfare or public way not less than sixteen feet (16') in width
                   which has been dedicated or deeded to the public for public use.

STRUCTURAL         Any change in the supporting structural components of a structure, such
ALTERATION:        as columns, bearing walls, beams, joists or trusses.

STRUCTURE OR       Anything that is constructed, the Use of which requires a fixed location
STRUCTURES:        on or in the ground, or attached to something having a fixed location on
                   the ground and which imposes an impervious material on or above the
                   ground. All Buildings are Structures.

TIME PERIOD        An annually recurring part or parts of a calendar year specified in the
UNIT:              condominium declaration or other document as a period for which a
                   physical unit is separately owned. Separate ownership is represented as
                   shares in a corporation, a partnership interest, or any other individually
                   owned transferrable property right or interest.

TIME PERIOD UNIT   A real estate project devoted in whole or in part to "time period units",
PROJECT:           as defined in this section.

TOP OF BANK:       That vertical point along a Waterway where an abrupt change in slope is
                   evident or the point where the stream or creek would enter the floodplain
                   as determined by the building official.

TOTAL FLOOR        The amount of square footage contained within all buildings and
AREA:              structures on the building site, measured by the inside surfaces of the
                   exterior wall, excluding any floor area designed as employee living
                   accommodations and common areas, including, but not limited to, any
                   lobby, elevator bank and elevator, restaurant, restaurant kitchen,
                   common stairwells and hallways, management offices, covered decks
                   and service, maintenance and mechanical spaces.

TOWN               The staff employed by the Town of Alta acting as the town clerk, the
ADMINISTRATION:    town administratortown manager , the assistant town administratortown
                   manager and the deputy town clerk.

TOWN COUNCIL:      The Town of Alta town council.
USE:              The purpose or purposes for which land or structures are occupied,
                  maintained, arranged, designed, or intended.

USE, ACCESSORY:   Any subordinate use customarily incidental to and located upon the same
                  lot occupied by the principal use.

USE, INTENSITY    The degree to which land or structures are used as measured by factors
OF:               including but not limited to purpose of occupancy, building footprint,
                  square footage, the need for parking, and the number of bedrooms,
                  bathrooms, kitchens, hot tubs, or plumbing fixtures.

USE, PRINCIPAL,   The main or primary use of land or structures as opposed to an accessory
OR MAIN OR        use.
PRIMARY:

UTAH CODE         The Utah law as codified and periodically amended and supplemented
ANNOTATED:        in the Utah Code Annotated, and as interpreted by Utah courts.

WATERWAY OR       Those areas varying in width including, but not limited to, streams,
WATERWAYS:        creeks, gullies, washes, rivulets, or culverts, whether constructed,
                  altered, or naturally occurring, which normally contain or convey water
                  during at least part of the year, and which are considered drainage
                  channels and not merely Erosion Channels , as determined by the
                  building official.

WIDTH OF LOT:     The distance between the side lot lines at the distance back from the front
                  lot line required for the depth of the front yard.

YARD:             A space on the lot, other than a court, unoccupied and unobstructed from
                  the ground upward, by buildings, except as otherwise provided herein.

YARD, FRONT:      A space on the same lot with the building between the front line of the
                  building and the front lot line, and extending across the full width of the
                  lot. The "depth" of the front yard is the minimum distance between the
                  front lot line and the front of the building.

YARD, REAR:       A space on the same lot with the building between the rear line of the
                  building and the rear lot line, and extending across the full width of the
                  lot. The "depth" of the rear yard is the minimum distance between the
                  rear lot line and the rear of the building.

YARD, SIDE:       A space on the same lot with the building between the side line of the
                  building and the nearest side lot line, and extending from the front lot
                           line to the rear lot line. The "width" of the side yard is the minimum
                           distance between the side lot line and the nearest side of the building.



10-4-7: STAFF AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE:
The town administration shall assist and coordinate with the planning commission with technical
matters. In order to further assist the planning commission in carrying out its duties, the planning
commission may request the assistance of technical experts and/or employees and agents of the
town, including, but not limited to, engineering, public works, applicable utility agencies, school
district, unified fire authority officials, town marshal, building official, state department of
transportation, town legal counsel, and "affected entities", as defined by Utah Code Annotated
section 10-9a-103(1), as amended and supplemented from time to time.

10-5-8: APPEAL PROCESS:
  A. Date Set: The appeal authority shall set a date for the appeal.
  B. Notice: The town shall notify the appellant, the land use applicant (if not the appellant),
and the land use authority of the appeal date. The town clerk shall obtain the findings,
conclusions and other pertinent information from the town administration, as required under
subsection 10-5-6C of this chapter, and the appellant's appeal, and shall provide a copy of all
documents to each member of the appeal authority at least seven (7) calendar days before the
date of the appeal.
  C. Use Of Minutes: The appeal authority may review and include in its decision any minutes
from the land use authority in which the application was discussed or decided upon.
  D. Decision: The appeal authority may affirm, reverse or affirm in part and reverse in part,
any properly appealed decision of the land use authority. The appeal authority may remand the
matter to the land use authority with directions for clarification or review. The appeal authority's
scope of review should be limited to consideration of only those matters raised by the petition,
unless the appeal authority, by motion and majority vote, enlarges the scope of the appeal to
accept information on other matters.

10-11-3: PRESUBMISSION MEETING:
It is strongly recommended that the applicant for a subdivision schedule a presubmission
meeting with the town administratortown manager, or another representative of the town
designated by the town administratortown manager.
  A. The town administratortown manager or his designated representative may extend an
invitation to the presubmission meeting to any servicing utility companies, the Salt Lake Valley
health department, the state department of transportation, the unified fire authority, and any other
private or public body that has jurisdiction or an interest in providing services to the subdivision.
  B. At the presubmission meeting, the applicant may bring any materials to assist the parties at
the meeting in identifying the location of the potential subdivision, the size and layout of the
subdivision, and any potential problems or challenges to creating the subdivision.
  C. Due to the unique terrain of the real property within the town, the town administratortown
manager or his designated representative may require that the applicant submit additional
information, as set forth in subsection 10-11-4B3 of this chapter.

10-11-4: APPLICATION FOR SUBDIVISION:
The applicant for a subdivision shall prepare and submit an application to the town
administratortown manager or his designated representative. The application shall include three
(3) copies of a complete preliminary plat and three (3) completed application forms for the
subdivision, including all required maps and charts. All application materials shall be submitted
at the same time in order to be considered for completeness. Following a determination that the
application is complete, the application shall be placed on the next available planning
commission regular meeting agenda for review. A complete application shall include the
following items:
  A. Preliminary Plat: The preliminary plat shall be prepared by a licensed surveyor, and shall
include the name and address of the surveyor responsible for preparing the preliminary plat, and
shall include a certification that the surveyor holds a license in accordance with Utah Code
Annotated title 58, chapter 22, as amended or replaced, and has completed a survey of the
property in accordance with Utah Code Annotated section 17-23-17, as amended or replaced.
The preliminary plat shall describe or specify:
    1. A name or designation of the subdivision that is distinct from any plat already recorded in
the county recorder's office;
    2. North arrow, graphic and written scale, legend, basis of bearings used, and a vicinity map
of the site;
   3. The legal description of the entire subdivision site boundary;
    4. The boundaries, course and dimensions, and acreage or square footage for all parcels of
ground divided, whether the owner proposes that any parcel or ground is intended to be used as a
street or for any other public use, and whether any such area is reserved or proposed for
dedication for a public purpose;
    5. For all parcels, the proposed lot or unit reference, block or building reference, street or
site address, street name or coordinate address (to be approved by the planning commission as
part of the application review process);
    6. Every existing right of way and easement grant of record for underground facilities and
for all other utility facilities;
   7. The anticipated net developable acreage for each lot;
    8. The names and addresses of the applicant and owner of the property, the engineer or
surveyor of the subdivision and the owners of the land immediately adjoining the land to be
subdivided and within three hundred feet (300') of the boundaries of the proposed subdivision.
  B. Application: The town administration may create an application form based upon the
requirements of this section. A complete application shall include all of the following
information:
    1. Property Information: The date of the application, the name, address, phone number, e-
mail address, and signature of the applicant and the owner of the property, the current zoning of
the property, the location and address of the proposed subdivision, the total acreage of the
subdivision, and the number of proposed lots. All persons with a fee interest in the property shall
sign the subdivision application form.
   2. Site Information: The following subdivision site information is required for a complete
application and shall be provided at the same scale as the preliminary subdivision plat, on
separate sheets if necessary:
      a. The identification of known and potential natural features on a map, including, but not
limited to, jurisdictional wetlands as identified by the U.S. army corps of engineers, known or
potential natural Waterways, Top of Bank, and any potential natural hazards, including
avalanche paths, liquefaction areas, and areas of soil instability, and all on site vegetation
regulated by town ordinance. A final map identifying known and potential natural features as
described in this section and identified by the building official will be reviewed and approved or
denied by the planning commission as part of the application review process.
     b. The location and dimensions of all existing buildings, fence lines and property lines,
overlaid on the proposed subdivision layout, and the location of surrounding manmade features
and improvements, including buildings and roads, and natural features, including significant
landmarks and geologic features.
    3. Evidence Of Availability Of Necessary Services: The following information is necessary
to establish the availability of basic services to the proposed subdivision and the subdivision
application is complete only when all basic services are available to the site and to each proposed
subdivision lot, and approved in writing by the designated authority:
      a. Culinary Water Requirements: Salt Lake City department of public utilities, water
division, Salt Lake Valley health department, and the town administratortown manager or his
designated representative, are hereby designated collectively as the "culinary water authority", as
further defined in Utah Code Annotated title 10, chapter 9a, as amended or replaced. Such
culinary water authority shall evaluate and approve the proposed culinary water system for the
subdivision. The applicant shall provide all information required by the culinary water authority
(and other applicable agency described below, if any), including, but not limited to, evidence of
the source, quantity, quality and means of delivery of the proposed culinary water to the
proposed subdivision and each proposed lot. Certain property within the town boundaries may
not be eligible to be served by the town culinary water system or able to be supplied water
through the town contract for water with Salt Lake City, and shall be required to obtain approval
from any additional public or private agency with jurisdiction over the proposed water source or
delivery system.
      b. Wastewater Requirements: Salt Lake Valley health department, environmental health
division, Salt Lake County service area no. 3, Cottonwood improvement district, and the town
administratortown manager or his designated representative, are hereby designated collectively
as the "sanitary sewer authority", as further defined in Utah Code Annotated title 10, chapter 9a,
as amended or replaced. Each sanitary sewer authority shall evaluate and approve the proposed
sanitary sewer system. The applicant shall provide all information and materials as required by
the sanitary sewer authority.
      c. Fire And Emergency Requirements: The Unified Fire Authority is hereby designated as
the "fire authority", as further defined in Utah Code Annotated title 10, chapter 9a, as amended
or replaced. The fire authority shall evaluate and approve the proposed fire suppression
infrastructure and emergency access to the proposed subdivision. If the proposed subdivision
does not include year round motor vehicle (as defined by Utah Code Annotated) access to all
proposed lots and proposed and existing roads, streets and adjacent properties, the application
shall include an emergency access mitigation plan, approved by the fire authority and the town.
The applicant shall provide all information and materials as required by the fire authority.
      d. Subdivision Roads And Streets: All proposed subdivision streets shall be evaluated and
approved by the town administratortown manager or his designated representative, and if
appropriate, the state department of transportation. The proposed street layout shall provide
adequate and safe year round access to all proposed lots and proposed and existing roads, streets
and adjacent properties. If the proposed subdivision does not include year round motor vehicle
(as defined by Utah Code Annotated) access to all proposed lots and proposed and existing
roads, streets and adjacent properties, the application shall include a parking and access
mitigation plan. If the proposed subdivision will be accessed from a state highway, an
appropriate access permit as required by the state department of transportation, shall be provided
with the application materials in order to be a complete application. If the proposed subdivision
will be accessed from U.S. Forest Service property, the applicant shall provide any appropriate
access or special use permits as required by the U.S. Forest Service with the application
materials in order to be a complete application.
      e. Avalanche Hazards: The town marshal department shall evaluate and approve the
subdivision application provisions for avalanche safety and interlodge controls. The application
shall include maps and descriptions of known avalanche slide paths and shall include a proposed
plat note describing the risks of building in an avalanche zone and an acknowledgment limiting
the town liability for hazards associated with avalanches. A final map identifying known
avalanche slide paths shall be certified by a qualified avalanche expert and will be reviewed and
approved or denied by the planning commission as part of the application review process. The
proposed plat note shall further acknowledge the responsibility of any landowner within the
subdivision to comply with the town interlodge procedures and avalanche design and
construction requirements, and the applicant and current landowner agreement to sign and record
the town avalanche hold harmless agreement concurrently with the recordation of the plat.
     f. Additional Information And Materials When Necessary: When the town
administratortown manager or his designated representative deems necessary due to the
characteristics of the property to be subdivided, the applicant may be required to provide other
information or letters of feasibility from other agencies with jurisdiction over the property to be
subdivided, conduct studies, and provide evidence indicating the suitability of the area for the
proposed subdivision, including, but not limited to, adequacy of public safety and fire protection,
geologic or flood hazard, erosion control, preservation of vegetation, and any other physical or
environmental matters in conformance with the town zoning ordinances. Such additional
requirements shall be made of the applicant at the presubmission meeting, or reasonably soon
thereafter.

10-11-6: APPLICATION COMPLETION TIME LINE:
  A. Determination Of Completeness Of Application: After receipt of an application, the town
administratortown manager or his designated representative shall determine whether the
application is complete. An application for subdivision is only complete when it includes all
information and approvals listed in this chapter. If the town administratortown manager or his
designated representative determines that the application is not complete, the town
administratortown manager or his designated representative shall notify the applicant in writing,
specifying the deficiencies of the application, including any additional information which must
be supplied. No further action will be taken by the town until the deficiencies are corrected.
  B. Remedy Of Deficiencies: The applicant shall correct all specified deficiencies within
ninety (90) days of the written notification of such deficiencies. If the applicant fails to correct
the specified deficiencies within such ninety (90) day period, the application for subdivision shall
be deemed withdrawn and will be returned to the applicant. Application fees shall not be
refunded. Any further submissions shall be considered only as part of a new application.
  C. Extensions Of Time: The town administratortown manager or his designated
representative, upon written request from the applicant, may grant the applicant one automatic
thirty (30) day extension to correct the specified deficiencies.

10-14-3: PRESUBMISSION MEETING:
Any land use applicant under this chapter shall schedule a presubmission meeting with the town
administratortown manager. Reference herein to the town administratortown manager shall mean
to the town administratortown manager or another representative of the town designated by the
town administratortown manager, if any.
  A. The town administratortown manager may extend an invitation to the presubmission
meeting to any servicing utility companies, the Salt Lake Valley health department, the Utah
department of transportation, the unified fire authority, and any other private or public body that
has jurisdiction or an interest in providing services to the potential land use.
  B. At the presubmission meeting, the applicant may bring any materials to assist the parties at
the meeting in identifying the location of the subject property, the potential land use, the size and
layout of the potential improvements or development, and any potential problems or challenges
to developing the subject property.
 C. Due to the unique terrain of the real property within the town, the town administratortown
manager may require that the applicant submit additional information.

10-14-4: APPLICATION AND CONCEPTUAL PLAN/PRELIMINARY PLAT:
  A. At any time after the presubmission meeting, a land use applicant shall submit an
application as described below and all additional information as required by this section. All
application materials shall be submitted at the same time in order to be considered for
completeness.
  B. The following shall be submitted to the town administratortown manager, unless waived
by the town administratortown manager as not applicable:
   1. Complete Application And Fees: A complete application form for the proposed land use
and all applicable fees.
    2. Application Fees And Technical Expertise And Engineering Fees: To be considered
complete, the application for the land use shall be accompanied by all fees established on the
town's fee schedule. The applicant shall pay all expenses of reviewing and approving the land
use, if any, including the town's fees for hiring individuals with technical expertise, legal
counsel, and engineers to review the application.
    3. Application Information And Materials: A complete application shall include the
following information and materials:
     a. Sketch/Site Plan Drawing: A scaled sketch/site plan drawing of the proposed
development site. At a minimum, the site plan shall include the following:
       (1) North arrow;
       (2) Name of proposed development or land use, if applicable;
       (3) Name, phone number, and address of applicant/developer;
       (4) Name, phone number, and address of property owner;
       (5) Drawing of proposed improvements, including buildings, driveways, roads, and
parking, and existing vegetation and slopes;
     b. Vicinity Map: A vicinity map containing sufficient information to accurately locate the
property shown on the plan;
      c. Property Information: Property information, including address, zoning, acreage, and
location of proposed lots or buildings within the proposed land use; and
      d. Site Information: Site information, including property lines, fence lines, natural
features, natural hazards, and avalanche hazards.
      e. Evidence Of Availability Of Necessary Services: The following information is
necessary to establish the availability of basic services to the proposed land use. The land use
application is complete only when the applicant has submitted evidence that all basic services are
available to the site (and if applicable, to each proposed lot), and the proposed land use has been
approved in writing by the designated authority.
        (1) Culinary Water Requirements: Salt Lake City department of public utilities, water
division, Salt Lake Valley health department, and the town administratortown manager, are
hereby designated collectively as the "culinary water authority", as further defined in Utah Code
Annotated title 10, section 9a, as amended or replaced. Each culinary water authority shall
evaluate and approve the proposed culinary water system for the land use. The applicant shall
provide all information required by the culinary water authority, including, but not limited to,
evidence of the source, quantity, quality, and means of delivery of the proposed culinary water to
the proposed land use, and if applicable, to each proposed lot. Certain property within the town
boundaries may not be eligible to be served by the town culinary water system or able to be
supplied water through the town's contract for water with Salt Lake City, and shall be required to
obtain approval from any additional public or private agency with jurisdiction over the proposed
water source or delivery system, prior to the land use application being deemed complete.
        (2) Wastewater Requirements: Salt Lake Valley health department, environmental
health division, Salt Lake County service area no. 3, Cottonwood improvement district, and the
town administratortown manager, are hereby designated collectively as the "sanitary sewer
authority", as further defined in Utah Code Annotated title 10, section 9a, as amended or
replaced. Each sanitary sewer authority shall evaluate and approve the proposed sanitary sewer
system. The applicant shall provide all information and materials as required by the sanitary
sewer authority.
        (3) Fire And Emergency Requirements: The unified fire authority is hereby designated
as the "fire authority", as further defined in Utah Code Annotated title 10, section 9a, as amended
or replaced. The fire authority shall evaluate and approve the proposed fire suppression
infrastructure and emergency access to the land use, and if applicable, to each proposed lot. If the
proposed land use does not include year round motor vehicle (as defined by the Utah code)
access to all proposed lots and proposed and existing roads, streets, and adjacent properties, the
application shall include an emergency access mitigation plan, approved by the fire authority and
the town. The applicant shall provide all information and materials as required by the fire
authority.
        (4) Avalanche Hazards: The town marshal's department shall evaluate and approve the
land use application's provisions for avalanche safety and interlodge controls. The application
shall include maps and descriptions of known avalanche slide paths and, if applicable, shall
include a proposed plat note describing the risks of building in an avalanche zone and an
acknowledgment limiting the town's liability for hazards associated with avalanches. The
proposed plat note shall further acknowledge the responsibility of any landowner within the land
use to comply with the town's interlodge procedures and avalanche design and construction
requirements, and the applicant's and current landowner's agreement to sign and record the
town's avalanche hold harmless agreement concurrently with the recordation of the plat. In all
proposed land uses (including those where a plat is not required), it shall be a condition of the
respective approval or permit to require that every landowner within the proposed development
comply with the town's interlodge procedures and avalanche design and construction
requirements, and each applicant and landowner shall sign and record the town's avalanche hold
harmless agreement concurrently with the issuance of the relevant approval or permit. Other
requirements may be imposed on any particular building or project to address or mitigate
potential avalanche hazards.

10-14-5: CONCEPTUAL PLAN AND APPLICATION COMPLETENESS:
  A. Determination Of Completeness: Upon receipt of the application form, information and
fees required in section 10-14-4 of this chapter, the town administratortown manager shall
determine whether the application is complete. A land use application is only complete if it
includes all required materials listed in section 10-14-4 of this chapter. If the town
administratortown manager determines that the application is not complete, the town
administratortown manager shall notify the applicant in writing, specifying the deficiencies of
the application, including any additional information which must be supplied. No further action
will be taken on the application by the town until the deficiencies are corrected.
  B. Remedy Of Deficiencies: The applicant shall correct all specified deficiencies within
ninety (90) days of the written notification of such deficiencies. If the applicant fails to correct
the specified deficiencies within such ninety (90) day period, the application shall be deemed
withdrawn and will be returned to the applicant. Application fees and technical expertise and
engineering fees shall not be refunded. Any further submissions shall only be considered as part
of a new application.
  C. Extensions Of Time: The town administratortown manager may, upon written request from
the applicant, grant the applicant one automatic thirty (30) day extension to correct the specified
deficiencies.

10-14-6: SUBMISSION:
Following a determination by the town administratortown manager that the application is
complete, the land use application will be placed on the next available land use authority regular
meeting agenda for review.

10-14-7: REVIEW:
  A. Town AdministratorTown Manager Review: Upon receipt of the land use application, the
land use authority may request a staff report reflecting an overview of the land use application
and an analysis of the land use application's compliance with the town's ordinances and general
plan from the town administratortown manager.
 B. Public Meetings: The land use authority shall review the land use application at one or
more public meetings for compliance with the town's ordinances and general plan.
  C. Applicant Presentation: The land use authority may request a presentation or appearance at
a public meeting from the land use applicant to present and discuss the land use application.
  D. Application Deficiencies: The land use authority may identify deficiencies in the land use
application and request that the applicant submit additional information or documents to come
into compliance with the town's ordinances and general plan.
  E. Applicant Submission Of Additional Materials: During the land use authority's review of
the application, if the applicant determines that additional materials are appropriate to comply
with the town's ordinances or general plan or to generally assist the land use authority with its
review of the application, the applicant may, at least ten (10) days prior to the next regularly
scheduled land use authority meeting on which the application is to be considered as part of the
agenda, submit additional information, including more detailed plans, plats, and/or other
materials.
  F. Additional Materials: The land use authority, upon its own motion or upon the
recommendation from the town administratortown manager or designee, or the town building
official, may request additional information and materials if determined by the land use authority
to be necessary or helpful to the land use authority's review of the application, including, but not
limited to, the following information:
   1. A traffic and/or parking study (as determined by the land use authority) prepared by a
qualified traffic engineer.
    2. Where applicable, a geotechnical study, which shall include groundwater depths, soil
stability, and/or avalanche hazard potential.
   3. A final site plan of the proposed development.
    4. Final approvals, as necessary, from the culinary water authority, the sanitary sewer
authority, the fire authority and/or the town marshal's department, and any related plans, plats, or
submissions required to comply with the ordinances, requirements, rules, and regulations of the
culinary water authority, sanitary sewer authority, fire authority, and/or the town marshal's
department.
   5. Evidence of lawful access to the property.
    6. Any approvals, as necessary, from outside agencies that have jurisdiction over any aspect
of the property, such as from the United States forest service or the U.S. corps of army engineers.
     7. Identification of natural features on a map including, but not limited to, known
jurisdictional wetlands as identified by the U.S. army corps of engineers, known or potential
natural waterways, and any potential natural hazards, including avalanche paths, seismic
conditions (including liquefaction information and fault lines), and areas of soil instability, and
all on site vegetation as regulated by town ordinance. A final map identifying natural features as
described in this section and identified by the building official will be reviewed and approved or
denied by the land use authority as part of the application review process.
  G. Adverse Impacts: To mitigate possible adverse impacts from the proposed development,
the land use authority shall determine from a review of the application, conceptual plan, and
preliminary plat whether the soil, slope, vegetation, and drainage characteristics of the site are
such as to require substantial cutting, clearing, and other earth working operations in the
construction of the development or otherwise create an erosion hazard. If so, the land use
authority shall require the applicant to provide soil erosion, geological hazard, and sedimentation
control plans and specifications, each of which shall be prepared by a qualified professional team
with the costs of preparation of such plans and specifications being borne by the applicant.
  H. Additional Concerns: In addition, given the unique nature of the topography, vegetation,
soils, climatic, and aesthetic characteristics of the property within the town, the land use
authority may also consider the following elements, among other relevant considerations, in its
review of the application:
   1. Natural setting of the proposed land use, including wildlife habitats.
   2. Relationship of the proposed land use and improvements with other structures and open
spaces.
   3. Contour intervals and topographic features of the location of the proposed land use.
   4. Height, density, and species of existing vegetation, and application of applicable
vegetation removal ordinances.
   5. Scenic vistas and sight lines as existing and of the proposed land use.
   6. Other elements deemed appropriate to ensure that the purposes of this chapter and other
applicable town ordinances and general plan are met.

10-14-8: FINAL APPROVAL OR DENIAL; ADDITIONAL SUBMISSIONS:
  A. Approval Or Denial: Within one year after receiving the complete land use application
from the town administratortown manager, and after review of the land use application at one or
more public meetings, the land use authority shall approve or deny the land use application. The
land use authority shall only approve those land use applications which:
    1. Are in accordance with the intent, standards, and criteria specified in the town's general
plan and ordinances;
   2. Create no financial hardship on the town; and
    3. Create no environmental consequence that will adversely impact adjacent properties and
the health, safety, or welfare of the inhabitants of the town when weighed against the positive
impacts of such development.
  B. Requirements Waived: The land use authority may waive any requirements under this
ordinance or the town's ordinances which it determines are not applicable to the proposed land
use or land use application.
  C. Town AdministratorTown Manager's Role: The land use authority may seek the direction,
review, analysis of whether the land use application complies with the town's ordinances and
general plan, and/or recommendation as to whether the land use application should be approved
or denied from the town administratortown manager.
  D. Extensions Of Time: The land use authority may grant up to a one year extension to the
applicant, during which time the land use authority will refrain from making a decision to either
approve or deny the application. The extension may be granted by the land use authority if the
applicant requests such an extension in writing prior to the expiration date and shows good cause
for the extension. The land use authority may request that the applicant keep the land use
authority updated throughout the extension period on any progress made on the land use
application, and the applicant may submit new information to the land use authority at any time
during the extension period.
  E. Expiration Of Approvals: For any approved development, project, or land use under this
chapter which requires a plat, such plat must be recorded within one year of the land use
authority's approval date or the plat and the approval will be deemed void. For any approved
conditional use or other land use which does not require a plat, the conditional use or other land
use approval will expire within one year of the land use authority's approval date unless there is
substantial action, including construction, consistent with the approved land use permit.

10-14-9: PUBLIC NOTICE TO BE POSTED:
  A. Every person submitting a land use application under this chapter shall post and maintain a
notice at the affected real property as provided in this section, within three (3) business days after
submitting the application to the town.
 B. The town shall process and consider the land use application only if the applicant complies
with this section.
  C. The notice shall be a white weatherproof sign, at least two feet by two feet (2' x 2') in size,
posted securely at least four feet (4') above ground level on a stake, post, fence or other structure
within six feet (6') of the primary access to the affected real property from a right of way,
commonly used way of public travel, or public road, and legible from the right of way, way of
travel or public road.
 D. The notice shall contain in black print:
   1. In letters at least one inch (1") high:
NOTICE OF PROPOSED LAND USE.
   2. In letters at least one-fourth inch (1/4") high:
[Applicant's name] has filed an application to the Town of Alta on [date filed] for a permit to
change the land use on the real property at [street address, or if the property has no street address,
plain English description of property location] as follows: [a description of the material features
of the proposed conditional uses, planned unit development or other land use applied for], as
shown on the site plan below. More information and a copy of the permit application are
available at the Town of Alta: 801-742-3522 and www.townofalta.com.
   3. The information required by the bracketed words in subsection D2 of this section.
    4. The sketch/site plan required by subsection 10-14-4B3a of this chapter, reproduced
clearly and as large as possible within the area of the sign.
  E. The notice shall remain posted until approval or denial of the application, disposition of all
appeals, or expiration of time to appeal, whichever occurs later.
  F. In the event that it is or becomes impracticable to post or maintain the signage notice
required by this section, for example due to snow removal, snow storage, location, or physical
attributes of the property, the town administratortown manager may exercise discretion to waive
or modify some or all of the signage notice requirements of this section in a reasonable manner
that is not materially more burdensome to the applicant, and that gives effect as much as
practicable to the purposes of this section.
  G. The town of Alta shall post on its public website a copy of every land use application filed
under this section until approval or denial of the application, disposition of all appeals, or
expiration of time to appeal; whichever occurs later.

11-4-1: DESIGNATION OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
The town administratortown manager, or his designated representative, is hereby appointed the
floodplain administrator to administer and implement the provisions of this title and other
appropriate sections of 44 CFR (national flood insurance program regulations) pertaining to
floodplain management.
