      MAYOR                                                                                   TOWN OF ALTA
   HARRIS SONDAK                                                                               P.O. BOX 8016
                                                                                             ALTA, UTAH 84092
   TOWN COUNCIL
  MARGARET BOURKE                                                                            TEL (801) 363-5105
     CLIFF CURRY                                                                               (801) 742-3522
   SHERIDAN DAVIS                                                                            FAX (801)742-1006
    ELISE MORGAN                                                                                   TTY 711




                                         Conflict of Interest Policy
Overview
The Town of Alta officers, defined in this policy as elected and appointed officials, individually commit
themselves in their official capacity to ethical, businesslike, and lawful conduct, including appropriate
use of their authority and decorum at all times. Officers must avoid even the appearance of impropriety
to ensure and maintain public confidence in the Town of Alta. Officers have a fiduciary duty to the Town
of Alta and must not act in a manner that is contrary to that duty or to the interests of the Town of Alta.
Officers must place the interests of the Town of Alta over their own personal interests with respect to
the governance, policy, strategic direction and operations of the Town of Alta.
Policy
It is the intent of the Town of Alta to meet and exceed the protections against conflicts of interest
contained in State law. Under this policy, a conflict of interest arises when an officer has a personal
interest or appearance of conflict in a matter that is or may be in conflict with or contrary to the Town of
Alta’s interests and objectives to such an extent that the officer is or may not be able to exercise
independent and objective judgment within the context of the best interest of the Town of Alta. For the
purposes of this policy, an officer’s “personal interest” includes those of his or her relatives, business
associates or other persons or organizations with whom he or she is closely associated.
The following provisions shall serve as a guide to officers with respect to the affairs of the Town of Alta:
    1. The Town of Alta officers shall not receive, accept, take or solicit, directly or indirectly, anything
       of economic value as a gift, gratuity, or favor from a person or entity if it could be reasonably
       expected that the gift, gratuity, or favor would influence the vote, action, or judgment, or be
       considered as part of a reward for action or inaction. Officers are required to report to the Alta
       Town Clerk of the actual or estimated value of any gifts or casual entertainment received as an
       officer that exceeds $50.
    2. Proprietary business information must be kept confidential at all times. Officers are prohibited
       from knowingly disclosing such information, or in any way using such information for personal
       gain or advancement, or to the detriment of the Town of Alta, or to individually conduct
       negotiations or make contacts or inquiries on behalf of the Town of Alta unless officially
       designated by the Town of Alta.
    3. It shall be a conflict of interest for Officers to acquire or have a financial interest in any property
       that the Town of Alta acquires, or a direct or indirect financial interest in a supplier, contractor,
       consultant, or other entity with which the Town of Alta does business. This does not prohibit the
       ownership of securities in any publicly owned company except where such ownership places the
       officer in a position to materially influence or affect the business relationship between the Town
       of Alta and such publicly owned company. Any other interest in or relationship with an outside
       organization or individual having business dealings with the Town of Alta is prohibited if this
       interest or relationship might tend to impair the ability of the officer(s) to be independent and
       objective in his or her service to the Town of Alta.
   4. If members of the immediate family of an officer have a financial interest as specified above,
      such interest shall be fully disclosed to the Alta Town Council which shall decide if such interest
      should prevent the Town of Alta from entering into a particular transaction, purchase, or
      engagement of services. The term “immediate family” means officer’s spouse, parent,
      dependent children, and other dependent relatives.
   5. When a conflict of interest exists, the officer shall publicly declare the nature of the conflict and
      may recuse him or herself on any official action involving the conflict.
   6. Officers may not realize, seek, or acquire a personal interest in a business that does business
      with the Town of Alta.
   7. Officers shall complete a Conflict of Interest Disclosure Form annually by the end of January.
      This Form shall be signed and notarized. Completed forms shall be submitted to the Town Clerk
      and made available to the public upon request.
   8. The Town Clerk shall provide copies of all completed Conflict of Interest Disclosure Forms to the
      Mayor at the end of January each year.
   9. The Mayor shall review all completed forms and consider the disclosures. The Mayor shall make
      changes to assignments, duties, or contracts deemed appropriate to eliminate or mitigate
      conflicts of interest within the Town of Alta.




ADOPTED this 28th day of December, 2020




________________________________________
Mayor Harris Sondak
