Alta Town Council

Staff Report


To: Town Council
From: Chris Cawley, Town Manager
Re: Shuttle Program Administrative Elements
Date: June 7th, 2023
Attachments:


In the May 2023 Alta Town Council meeting, some council members expressed concern for the
administrative burden the Town of Alta would bear if we proceed to operate the winter season,
around-town shuttle program. Staff would like to reassure the council that we are confident the
program will not be a major undertaking for the Town, and we have compiled the following
rough assumptions and time budgets for shuttle program-related tasks. We would need to
accomplish these tasks on an annual basis so long as the town is managing the program:

   1. Fundraising from lodges and ski areas
          a. 5 hours of phone calls and other conversations
   2. Town council meetings, meetings with stakeholders/funders to define service plan
          a. 5 hours to prepare and present materials to town council
          b. 5-10 hours to plan and conduct stakeholder meeting
   3. Organizing transportation vendor solicitation
          a. 5-10 hours to write scope of work for request for proposals
          b. 1-2 hours legal review
   4. Selecting a vendor
          a. 5-10 hours to review proposals
          b. 2-4 hours for contract negotiation with preferred vendor
          c. 1-2 hours legal review
   5. Managing a contract/vendor
          a. 2 hours to generate invoices for donations, receive and process checks
          b. 10 hours for vendor management
                    1. Alta Shuttle has required very little active management in the past. If
                         another vendor is selected, they may require more active management.
   6. Identifying long-term funding strategies
          a. Unknown: we assume we will not fund the program through donations for more
               than a year or two, so we will have to come up with other arrangements. It is
               difficult to estimate how much administrative time this will take.
   7. Miscellaneous conversations and emails: 5-10 hours

Total: 46-70 hours annually
