Alta Town Council

Staff Report


To: Budget Committee, Town Council
From: Chris Cawley, Interim Town Manager
Re: Projects Tracking Document, June 5 update
Date: June 5, 2023
Attachments: Summary and Expanded Views of Projects Tracking Document



**June 5 Update**

The staff report below and the attached projects plan document is the same material included in
the packets for the May 2023 budget committee and town council meetings. However, staff
anticipates making a few changes to the FY 24 Town of Alta Projects Plan prior to finalizing and
presenting the proposed FY 24 budget to the town council:

        •   Alta Central Deck Replacement maintenance project scope and budget may increase
        •   Proposed Community Center Feasibility Study scope and budget may increase
        •   Alta Central Generator Replacement Project, currently listed as a future project,
            may be proposed in FY 24 as replacing the existing generator has recently appeared
            to be more urgent.
        •   The playground equipment upgrade project will not be completed before June 30th
            since the snowmelt has not advanced far enough for staff to purchase and install
            new equipment.

Projects Tracking

The Capital Projects Committee has developed a new document to track and forecast expenses
toward capital projects. This document will replace the capital projects plan the Town of Alta
has used in the past to allocate funds in the Town of Alta Capital Projects Account to specific
uses. Below are key changes and updates to the new document format:

    •   Projects across Town of Alta funds – The previous capital projects plan included only
        projects funded by the capital projects account. The new document includes projects
        funded by the general fund, the capital projects fund, the water fund, and the sewer
        fund.
    •   Projects broken out by “decision level” – The new document separates projects into
        various categories. The spreadsheet format allows funding allocation per category to be
        viewed in summary, and then in an expanded view with individual project listings:
            o Maintenance projects are small repairs on Town of Alta buildings
            o Approved 23 projects were approved by the council in 2023 and we expect to
                complete them before June 30
        o    Rollover 24 projects were approved by the council for completion in 2023, will
             not be completed before June, and are proposed for approval and completion in
             2024
         o Decision 24 projects are new projects that are proposed for approval in FY 24
         o Future projects are conceptual projects we are not ready to propose
         o Removed projects are approved projects we’ve decided not to complete
•   10 Fiscal Year Projection Timeline – This is a work in progress, intended to allow the
    Town to project capital expenses further into the future than it has in the past.
•   Project Descriptions: Removed – The previous capital projects plan document included
    project descriptions. These were visually overwhelming and crowded out other
    important details. We are contemplating other ways to include project descriptions in a
    projects tracking document.
•   Future Community Center Phase 2 Project Listing – The previous format of the Town of
    Alta Capital Projects Plan used a formula to calculate funding allocated to the design and
    construction of a new community center. The formula was based on the Capital Projects
    Fund balance, and the value was the remainder of the fund balance less the total cost of
    all other projects on the plan, but it did not reflect any actual projected cost for a
    project.

    In the updated document, we project spending $3 million in FY 25 on a new community
    center. This amount reflects an updated rough cost estimate provided by the architect
    who developed a schematic design for a new community center building on the location
    of the existing facility in 2003. The architect used current, regional construction costs to
    estimate the cost to build a similar facility in 2023. The Town has engaged the same
    architect to produce a more detailed cost estimate for a fee of $4500 and we anticipate
    the work being completed by June 30, 2023.




                                                                                               2
