Alta Planning Commission

Staff Report


To: Town Council
From: John Guldner and Chris Cawley
Re: Alta Ski Area Request for a Conditional Use Permit to to install two Connex storage
containers on a semi-permanent basis on private land adjacent to the Wildcat Parking Lot
Date: July 11, 2023
Attachments: Application letter; container specs




Background:

Alta Ski Area (Alta) is requesting your approval of a Conditional Use Permit to excavate a 16’ x
40’ area on their property in the northwest edge of the Wildcat Parking Lot. The area will be
excavated and tucked into the hill. The area will be surfaced with gravel to serve as the pad for
the containers.

This project has already been completed and we are playing catch up to formalize the required
conditional use permit. Alta already owned the containers, which were in a separate location on
the Ski Areas USFS special use permit. Alta planned on storing the Wyssen Towers where the
containers were already located, but when the area was slated for maintenance, the containers
had to be relocated. Alta reviewed their options for relocation of the containers and sought out
the best place for the containers to store the Wyssen Towers over the summer and for an
indefinite period into the future, while they evaluate a permanent storage facility. They picked
the northwest corner of the main lot, as is shown in their application materials.

Alta did not realize the need to contact the Town about permitting until they had begun
excavating the pad. While one can be found guilty of a class C misdemeanor under Town of Alta
Code 10-1-11 to violate Town of Alta land use regulations by violating zoning ordinances,
building without a permit, et cetera, upon being notified of the project by Alta Ski Area, the
town allowed the project to continue while working on the details to formalize the approval.

This is a small project, well thought out and in a great location. Out of the way, yet still visible
from the front so the containers can be monitored easily throughout the summer. Safe, tucked
away. We’ve been clear with Alta that working before permit in the future may subject the
company to a penalty.

Staff recommends the Planning Commission approve the conditional use permit request as
submitted.

The request and project have been well thought out, safe location, protected, out of the way yet
still visible for monitoring and satisfies the conditions necessary for approval as described
below.
Again, the town and the Ski Area have had significant dialogue so this won’t happen in the
future and no construction can take place before the proper permits have been sought and
issued.

The request meets the requirements necessary to grant a conditional use permit as identified in
the application and specifically laid out in the ordinance as follows:

                              Chapter 9
                          Conditional Uses
    1.The proposed use of the particular location is necessary or desirable to
provide a service or facility which will contribute to the general well-being of the
neighborhood and the community; and
     2. Such use will not, under the circumstances of the particular case, be
detrimental to the health, safety or general welfare of persons residing or working
in the vicinity, or injurious to property or improvements in the vicinity; and
    3. The proposed use will comply with regulations and conditions specified in
this title for such use; and
    4. The proposed use will conform with the intent of the town master plan.
Re: #1. This proposed use is necessary to support the conditional use permit issued last year for
the RACS on Baldy and the East Castle. The commission did a thorough review of that project,
but we all forgot to think about where these RACS would be stored in the summer. This storage
option and location will contribute greatly to the project, the general well-being of Alta.
Re: #2. This use will have no detrimental impacts to the health, safety or general welfare of
persons residing or working in the vicinity, nor will it cause any injuries to property or
improvements in the vicinity.
Re: #3. This use does comply with the conditional use permit guidelines of the FR zone in which
it is located. Specifically, these storage containers are customarily incidental to the ski area’s
existing RACS devices, for which the commission granted a conditional use permit in 2022.
Re: #4. The town master plan (general plan) recognizes Alta’s avalanche hazards. While the plan
does not specifically address these modern RACS, this current proposal does fit within the
existing zoning, and it therefore complies with the intent of the town’s general plan.




                                                                                                     2
                                      ALTA SKI AREA
                                 P.O. Box 8007 • ALTA, UTAH 84092-8007
                                PHONE 801-359-1078•FAX 801-799-2340
                                             www.alta.com




June 5, 2023


Town of Alta
Attn. Chris Cawley
Town of Alta Administrator


For Distribution to:
Alta Planning Commission

RE: Request for Conditional Use Permit – Connex Storage Location

Purpose and Need
The transition from using the 105 Howitzer for avalanche mitigation work to Remote Avalanche Control
Systems (RACS) within the ski area has created a need for summer storage for the Wyssen Tower Units.
The size of the units allows their storage in Connex storage containers owned by the ski area. Each unit
sets on a wheeled cradle that allows the unit to be wheeled into the container for storage. It also allows
the units to be easily accessible during the summer for service. Storage of the units in the Connex
storage containers protects them from vandalism and accidents. No explosive material will be in the
units or stored in the containers.

Since maintenance is scheduled for the Wildcat Parking Lot (crack sealing and a chip seal overlay), Alta
Ski Area desires to place the containers on a pad created located on its private land adjacent to the
Northwest Corner of the Wildcat Parking Lot. See Exhibit 1.

The pad size will be approximately 18’ x 42’. Each Connex container is 8’ wide x 40’ length x 8’6” height.
The pad will be created with fill material and a cut into the embankment. Gravel will be placed on the
pad prior placement of the Connex containers. Soil will be placed around the containers once in place
to maintain the slope at the site. As noted in Exhibit 1, the Connex storage pad is located within an area
that is proposed to be excavated for an expansion of the Wildcat parking lot to replace roadside parking.
The Roadside Parking replacement project is currently under review by the USFS. It is Alta Ski Area’s
hope that the Roadside Parking replacement project will be approved and carried out during the
summer of 2024, at which time the Connex Storage units will be relocated elsewhere.
Request for Conditional Use Permit
Alta Ski Area requests the Town of Alta to issue a Conditional Use Permit to allow the use of its private
land adjacent to the Northwest Corner of the Wildcat parking lot for two Connex storage units as
described above.

Fulfillment of Town of Alta code requirements for conditional Use (Section 10-9-2)

10-09-02 (A) – This document constitutes an application for a conditional use permit from the Alta
Planning Commission.

10-09-2 (B)
        1. Site plan for the project is attached as Exhibit 1.
        2. Attached photos show the site lines of the Connex container location from the top and
            bottom of the Wildcat Ramp and the entrance to the Goldminer’s daughter.
        3. The Connex containers are 8’ wide x 40’ length x 8’6” height. The door of the containers will
            face the Wildcat Parking lot and grade of the pad for the containers will be level with Wildcat
            Parking lot. This is to facilitate the movement of the Wyssen units on their cradles from the
            parking lot into the containers.

10-09-2 (E)
        1. This site is more desirable than other locations around the edges of the parking lot as it is
            tucked into a corner with a sloping grade around it that limits its view. Existing drainage and
            erosion control will be used at this site. No other improvements are necessary to use this
            site.
        2. The use of this site for this purpose is not detrimental to the health, safety, or general
            welfare of persons residing or working in the vicinity or to other property improvements in
            the vicinity.

The two Connex containers proposed for this site are in addition to the current Connex containers used
by the ski area to store equipment, supplies, and merchandise at the Wildcat and Albion base areas. Alta
Ski Area is seeking approval from the USFS for a building site located on the North side of the Albion
Parking lot for a storage facility which would allow reduction of Connex storage containers in the ski
area.
Exhibit 1
Site Photos
