Alta Planning Commission

Staff Report


To: Town Council
From: John Guldner and Chris Cawley
Re: Alta Ski Area Request for a Conditional Use Permit for one additional Remote Avalanche
Control System (RACS) device on East Baldy
Date: July 11, 2023
Attachments: Application letter; exploder, footing, and shelter plans; staff report and approval
letter re: Alta Ski Area’s 2022 RACS projects; BW Exploder testing summary report


Background:

Last June you approved a Conditional Use Permit request from the Alta Ski Area for eight (8)
RACS in East Baldy Area. There were actually eleven (11) devices, three (3) were on Forest Land
and eight (8) were on Alta Ski Area’s privately owned property, thereby needing Conditional Use
Approval. Please refer to the attached staff memo dated May 25, 2022, for your review of the
Wyssen Towers RACS last year.

While this new request is for a different type of exploder, a BW Exploder by Alpine
Infrastructure, the same rationale applies to this one as it did to the eight (8) from last year. Alta
has always been on the forefront of evolving avalanche mitigation measures. Approval of this
BW exploder would continue that tradition and paves the way for future improvement in
avalanche mitigation.

It is unfortunate that this location was not included in last year’s review/approval but through
the evolving experience with avalanche mitigation, this location stands out as needing another
RAC installation.

The Ski Area has done an excellent job of explaining the need, location and the installation and
operational details of this proposed RAC device. This device is close to the project area for last
year’s RACS installations and serves the same purpose as the RACS you approved last year.

Please review the attached information. A representative from the Ski Area will be at our next
meeting to answer questions.

Staff Recommendation:

Using the same rationale as last year’s approval, the staff recommendation is to approve the
device as submitted under the same conditions as the RACS approved last year:
construction/installation to follow the manufacturer’s guidelines and specifications, including
future annual inspections, adherence to the relevant Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and
Explosives requirements for such installations and following the same requirements for
installation and mitigation as required by the Forest if the installation were on Forest lands.
Last year’s staff report and Conditional Use Permit approval letter are attached.

Re: Tank Farm Structure; it would be ideal if the structure could be moved off the actual
ridgeline. This can be an item of more discussion at the meeting.

Note: both the installation of the BW exploder and the tank farm structure will be required to be
inspected by the Unified Fire Authority and the Town’s Building Department.

The Variance to construction on slope over 30% will be addressed by the Land Use Appeal
Authority in their next meeting.




                                                                                               2
                                       ALTA SKI AREA
                                  P.O. Box 8007 • ALTA, UTAH 84092-8007
                                  PHONE 801-359-1078 • FAX 801-799-2340
                                               www.alta.com


July 9, 2023

Town of Alta

Attn. Chris Cawley
Town of Alta

For Distribution to:
Alta Planning Commission
Town Council, Town of Alta

                            Alta Ski Area BW Exploder Installation

Project background and explanation:

Alta Ski Area is currently researching a developing technology for improving avalanche mitigation on the East
facing slopes of Mount Baldy (East Baldy). East Baldy presents a complicated avalanche challenge for the
efforts of avalanche mitigation performed by Alta Ski Area. The starting zones of this terrain lie above a cat
road known as the EBT or East Baldy Traverse. This traverse is critical to the operations of the ski area as it is
the only connection between the upper portions of the two drainages which comprise the ski area. This road is
frequently closed due to avalanche hazard, forcing skiers down and across the base of the ski area so that they
may ski from the Albion Basin into the Collins Gulch area and consequently increasing skier density on Devil’s
Elbow which is the ‘easier way’ off of the Sugarloaf lift.

Avalanche mitigation on this terrain is currently accomplished through three methods. The first of these
methods is that of a Remote Avalanche Control System gas exploder called the Obell-X. Currently four Obell-X
exploders are in place in the avalanche starting zones identified as yellow diamonds in Figure 1. The
secondary method of mitigation is the use of an Avalauncher gun. This gun is used only as backup to the
Obell-X exploders. The use of this Avalauncher is limited to non-operating hours due to the proximity of the
Snowbird Ski Resort to the target areas. A final method of mitigation is that of the use of ski patrollers on slope
executing mitigation using ski cuts and explosive delivery to the starting zones. This method presents hazard
to personnel and is limited by weather and avalanche hazard. Historically several ski patrollers have been
captured in avalanches while mitigating this terrain.

One limitation and hazard of using Obell-X exploders is that they must be reloaded and maintained using
helicopters during the winter season. Use of helicopters is subject to weather conditions and involves some
hazard to personnel. This limitation and hazard, coupled with concerns about the durability and performance of
the Obell-X exploder has led Alta Ski Area to continue to explore other new technologies that could improve
avalanche mitigation work for the East Baldy Area.

A developing technology that potentially could replace the Obell-X exploders is the BW Exploder. The BW
Exploder is designed and manufactured in Wyoming by Alpine Infrastructure. The BW Exploder uses a mixture
of Methane and Oxygen to create an explosion in avalanche starting zones. Like the Obell-X exploders, they
are installed in fixed locations and operated remotely by computer. Benefits of the BW exploder are that a
helicopter is not required to reload them, and they can fire significantly more shots than the Obell-X exploders
before needing to be reloaded.




                                             ESTABLISHED 1938
                                        ALTA SKI AREA
                                    P.O. Box 8007 • ALTA, UTAH 84092-8007
                                    PHONE 801-359-1078 • FAX 801-799-2340
                                                 www.alta.com

The BW Exploder sits on a 4’ x 4’ concrete footing serviced by two 2” High-Density Poly Ethelene (HDPE) gas
lines laid on the surface to a small tank farm. This tank farm is a prefabricated structure. The tank farm will sit
to the east of the exploder and measures 8’ high, by 8’ wide, by 10’ wide as designed. However, should the
land use authority require, the structure could be as small as 4’ wide, by 6’ wide, by 6’ high. This tank farm will
be situated on the ridgeline near the existing ticket shack on Sugarloaf Pass between Alta and Snowbird ski
resorts. The location of this tank farm is determined by access, property ownership, and the presence of pre-
existing infrastructure. Numerous similar tank farms exist within Little Cottonwood Canyon on both the slopes
of Mount Superior and Hellgate. The structure is shown in Figure 2. The tank farm will be of earthen color and
will not be visible from the valley floor.

The exploder consists of a 24’ tower with the detonation chamber mounted to the topmost portion. This device
is pictured in figure 3. The exploder will be below the large cliff, will be of earthen color, and not visible from the
valley floor.

The location of both the exploder and the tank farm are pictured in figure 4. Also visible in Figure 4 is the
property line denoted in red. The Location and height of the proposed tower will not be “ridgeline” as seen in
figures 5, and 6. The location of the exploder and property lines are visible in Figure 7.

The gases used for the BW Exploder are not regulated by the Bureau of Alcohol Tobacco Firearms and
Explosives (BATFE) in their stored state within the tank farm. The exploder is regulated by BATFE once gases
are mixed for detonation. This is similar to the BATFE regulation of the OBell-X device and is permitted under
Alta Ski Area’s Federal Explosives License/Permit (Type 20, manufacturer, and user of explosives).

Request for Variance and Conditional Use Permit:

Alta Ski Area requests from the Town of Alta the issuance of a Conditional Use Permit for installation of
the BW Exploder System on the private lands of Mount Baldy to be installed in the shot 1 start zone
identified by the “X” in Figure 7. Alta Ski Area also requests the issuance of a Variance to allow
construction of the system on slopes over 30% in steepness.

The system will be installed in terrain of up to 40° in steepness and is similar to other avalanche
mitigation devices in Alta which have been previously installed in terrain 50° in steepness. The design
allows for the installation of the footing for the device on terrain much steeper than this. The installation
teams which do this work are highly experienced in working in this high angle terrain. The installation
consists of hand leveling a location, followed by deep rock drilling to secure the footing to the slope.

In reference to Town of Alta code requirements for conditional use:

Under code 10-9-2: Conditional Use permit.

10-9-2 Section A
    1. Requirements are met through this process of requesting a permit from the Alta Planning
        Commission.

10-9-2 Section B.
    1. Site plans for this project are depicted in attached images. There will be no required snow
        removal or erosion control for the project. Further, no roads, pathways, parking or grading will
        take place. There will be no requirement for access by either fire or police. One accessory
        structure will be installed (tank farm).
    2. These structures do not fit the description of “buildings” by code definition.
    3. This device is permitted under BATFE ruling 2022-02 for the installation and use of Remote
        Avalanche Control Systems. The mixing and detonation of gases is allowed by Alta Ski Area’s
        Type 20 FEL/P issued by the BATFE. Storage of unmixed gases is not regulated by the BATFE
        under 18 U.S.C. 842(J).




                                               ESTABLISHED 1938
                                      ALTA SKI AREA
                                 P.O. Box 8007 • ALTA, UTAH 84092-8007
                                 PHONE 801-359-1078 • FAX 801-799-2340
                                              www.alta.com


10-9-2 Section C, D
    1. Requirements for this section are met through this process.

10-9-2 Section E.
    2. The proposed use of this location meets the requirements for conditional use. The location is
        desirable to provide an installation of equipment which will provide for an increased level of safety
        for the employees and guests of Alta Ski Area. Thus, an increase to the general wellbeing
        through the protection of life and property.
    3. Use of the proposed equipment will not be detrimental to the health and wellbeing of persons
        residing in the general vicinity. Conversely, the installation by design is to increase the safety of
        those persons.

In reference to Town of Alta code for Variances:

Under code 10-5-11: Variances.

10-5-11 Section A-E.
 Pursuant to this section. It is understood by the applicant the application process and the appeal
authority. It is understood that the burden of proof lies upon the applicant, and that applicant shall
mitigate any harmful effects of the variance.

Under code annotated 10-9a-702. Variances
Applicant responses below meet the requirements of:

(2)(a)
    (i) Literal enforcement of the variance for slope would be unreasonable in the case of this project.
          The terrain is substantially steeper than the 30% stated in the code. As an avalanche mitigation
          tool, the installation must be installed in steep avalanche terrain.
    (ii) There are special circumstances which apply to this area based on avalanche hazard and limited
          other methods of avalanche mitigation are available.
    (iii) Granting the variance is desirable for the operation of the ski area and opening of ski terrain
          moving into the future.
    (iv) The isolation of the terrain and the limited disturbance of installation will not by any definition be
          contrary to the public interest or the general plan. By definition, the improved level of safety
          provided by the installation is in fact in the interest of the public.
    (v) The applicant seeks to observe the spirit of the land use ordinance and will continue to do so.

(2)(b)
(i) Enforcement of the land use ordinance will not cause undue hardship under subsection (2)(a):
     A. The property for which the variance is sought consists of private property on Mount Baldy
        consisting of topographically extreme terrain.
     B. Due to the extreme nature of the terrain in topography, conditions are not general to the
        neighborhood.
(ii) The request for the variance is terrain based and not economic or self-imposed.

(2)(c)
(i) Special Circumstances apply based on the needed protection of life and property as well as the
     circumstances regarding extreme terrain.
(ii) Similar installations have been installed and permissions granted within the Town of Alta on both
     public and private lands.




                                            ESTABLISHED 1938
                                       ALTA SKI AREA
                                   P.O. Box 8007 • ALTA, UTAH 84092-8007
                                   PHONE 801-359-1078 • FAX 801-799-2340
                                                www.alta.com

Summary:

Alta Ski Area requests approval of a Conditional Use Permit and Slope Variance to install a single BW
Exploder and associated tank farm on the slopes of Mount Baldy to begin in August 2023. The
Installation will increase the level of safety provided to the employees and customers of Alta Ski Area.
Further, the installation will allow the ski area to provide travel on the East Baldy Traverse on a more
reliable basis. It is the opinion of Alta Ski Area that there exists an overwhelming precedent for the
installation of this system within the mountainous terrain of Alta and upper Little Cottonwood Canyon
based on the system’s similarity to avalanche mitigation devices previously approved on both public and
private lands and installed by Alta Ski Area and the Utah Department of Transportation within the Town of
Alta.

The installation and testing of this new device will provide Alta with improved ability for avalanche mitigation in
all weather conditions. Further, the testing of the device will help to move the avalanche industry forward with
the development of new tools to better provide for the protection of life and property.

Thank you very much for your consideration of this matter. We look forward to hearing a response from
you soon.

Sincerely,

David Richards
Alta Ski Area
Director, Avalanche Office




                                              ESTABLISHED 1938
   ALTA SKI AREA
P.O. Box 8007 • ALTA, UTAH 84092-8007
PHONE 801-359-1078 • FAX 801-799-2340
             www.alta.com




                 Figure 1




                Figure 2
  The structure will be of earthen color.




          ESTABLISHED 1938
                           ALTA SKI AREA
                      P.O. Box 8007 • ALTA, UTAH 84092-8007
                      PHONE 801-359-1078 • FAX 801-799-2340
                                   www.alta.com




                                         Figure 3
The installed exploder will be a single tower and without the extra struts pictured here.




                                 ESTABLISHED 1938
          ALTA SKI AREA
       P.O. Box 8007 • ALTA, UTAH 84092-8007
       PHONE 801-359-1078 • FAX 801-799-2340
                    www.alta.com

                     Figure 4




USFS
Lads


                     Figure 4




                ESTABLISHED 1938
                              ALTA SKI AREA
                          P.O. Box 8007 • ALTA, UTAH 84092-8007
                          PHONE 801-359-1078 • FAX 801-799-2340
                                       www.alta.com




                                            Figure 5
Location and height of proposed device viewed from below. The device will be of earthen color.
                          (Note existing Obell-X devices for reference)




                                           Figure 6
             Location and height of proposed device viewed from Germania Pass.




                                    ESTABLISHED 1938
             ALTA SKI AREA
         P.O. Box 8007 • ALTA, UTAH 84092-8007
         PHONE 801-359-1078 • FAX 801-799-2340
                      www.alta.com




USFS                                 USFS




                          Figure 7
  Exploder location denoted by “X”. Property Lines shown.




                   ESTABLISHED 1938
16' tower depicted, Alta tower
to be 24'
                                                                                                                                                          REVISIONS
                                                                                                                              REV.                     DESCRIPTION          DATE
       48"                                                                                                                     0       ISSUED FOR APPROVAL                 5/8/2023

                                Depth and Diameter of anchor rod
                                to be determined by soils/rock




                        48"




     TOP VIEW



       48"                                       48"




4"

                      29-3/8"
                                                                   29-3/8"

         30°


                 4"                           BACK VIEW
     SIDE VIEW


                                                                                                                       NAME          DATE

                                                                                                         DRAWN          JBB        5/8/2023
                                                                                                                                                ALPINE INFRASTRUCTURE
                                                                                                         CHECKED                              TITLE:




                                                                        PROPRIETARY AND CONFIDENTIAL
                                                                   THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS
                                                                                                                                                   TOWER PAD
                                                                   DRAWING IS THE SOLE PROPERTY OF                                            SIZE DWG. NO. REV
                                                                   ALPINE INFRASTRUCTURE. ANY
                                                                   REPRODUCTION IN PART OR AS A
                                                                   WHOLEWITHOUT THE WRITTEN
                                                                   PERMISSION OF ALPINE INFRASTRUCTURE   Normal-weight Concrete
                                                                                                                                              B AVI-001 0
                                                                   IS PROHIBITED.                           DO NOT SCALE DRAWING              SCALE: 1:16WEIGHT: 3311   SHEET 1 OF 1
Tank Farm similar.

Alta shed to be custom
built to size. Propane
depicted to be Methane
for Alta BW Exploder.
May 25,2022

Staff Memo to the Alta Planning Commission

RE: Alta Ski Area Request for a Conditional Use Permit for eight (8) Wyssen Tower Remote Avalanche
Control Systems on Mount Baldy. Eleven (11) total, but three(3) on Forest property, eight (8) on private
property under Planning Commission purview.

The Alta Ski Area (Alta) is requesting a Conditional Use Permit (CUP) to install 11 Wyssen Tower Remote
Avalanche Control Systems (RACS), 8 on their private property and 3 on Forest property, in the Mount
Baldy Area.

Alta’s letter of application and background materials on the Wyssen Towers, Department of Justice ATF
Approval letter and Forest Service approval letter for the towers on Forest property are attached. The
application letter and attachments provide a detailed description of the proposal.

The Forest Service has jurisdiction over the RACS installations on Forest property. The town has
jurisdiction over the private property requests. The RACS on Alta’s property are property zoned FR-50
and require CUP approval prior to construction. They also require a variance since they will be
constructed on slope over 30%, but that is an issue for the Land Use Appeal Authority and will be dealt
with separately.

In the FR-50 zone, anything but a single-family dwelling and accessory uses to single family dwellings
requires a CUP. The ski area is a conditional use under “Commercial and private recreation” and the
RACS qualify as conditional uses since they are “accessory uses and structures customarily incidental to
a conditional use.”

10-6A-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
All conditional uses are subject to sections 10-6A-4 through and including 10-6A-9 of this article, except
that the regulations of sections 10-6A-4 through 10-6A-9 of this article may be modified by the town
council as they relate to Public Use and Quasi-Public Uses.
 Accessory uses and structures customarily incidental to a conditional use.
 Commercial and private recreation.
Staff analysis of Alta’s CUP application:
The requirements don’t really apply to the current RACS proposal. Those requirements, 10-6A-4-9, are
attached separately. The requirements, established over 50 years ago, anticipated dealing with more
traditional buildings and structures, not modern-day remote-controlled avalanche mitigation systems.
With Alta’s request there are no issues with the standard requirements such as lot size, coverage,
parking, setbacks, waterway setbacks or wastewater systems. Alta will follow the Forest approvals
revegetation plan for any disturbance, even on their private lands. It seems the only applicable
regulations would be slope, height and building material. Slope will be delt with by the Appeal Authority.
Height is determined by the avalanche paths and terrain. Building material has been determined by the
design requirements of the specialized manufacturer of the racs.
Alta’s application letter does an excellent job of defining the installation, character and need for the
Wyssen Towers. The addition of the Department of Justice’s ATF approval letter, the Forest Service
Decision Memo and the Foundation Instruction and Assembly information of the Wyssen Avalanche
Structures give even more dept to the project and need. The Forest Service has jurisdiction over any
structures on Forest property and has given their approval. Alta will follow the same requirements of
the Forest Service and the ATF approval and conditions for the installation of the structures on their
private land now under Planning Commission purview.
These racs will replace the use of military weapons for avalanche control, and the hazards associated
with the use of military weapons. Plus, the Department of Defense has targeted 2025 for the
discontinuation for the use of military weapons for avalanche control. It is best to get ahead of that
deadline with the installation and use of modern alternative avalanche control methods like the RACS in
this request.
The proposed RACS, if successful, would eliminate the need for a tram to Mount Baldy to transport ski
area personnel to conduct avalanche control with hand charges, exposing those personnel to both
avalanche and explosive risk.
Recommendation
Staff recommends approval of the structures as submitted, with the same requirements and conditions
issued under Forest Service and Department of Justice ATF approval letters as attached as well as the
Wyssen Avalanche Structure Foundation installation instructions, also attached.
      MAYOR                                                                        TOWN OF ALTA
   ROGER BOURKE                                                                     P.O. BOX 8016
                                                                                  ALTA, UTAH 84092
   TOWN COUNCIL
   CAROLYN ANCTIL                                                                 TEL (801) 363-5105
     JOHN BYRNE                                                                     (801) 742-3522
   SHERIDAN DAVIS                                                                 FAX (801)742-1006
    ELISE MORGAN                                                                        TTY 711




June 5, 2022
Dave Richards Director
Alta Avalanche Office
P.O. Box 8007
Alta, Utah 84092-8007
Re: Conditional Use Permit Approval for 8 Wyssen Towers on Mount Baldy
Dear Dave:
On June 2, 2022, the Alta Planning Commission met, discussed, and approved Alta Ski Area’s
(Alta) request to construct eight (8) Wyssen Tower Remote Avalanche Control Systems (RACS)
in the locations identified on Alta’s private land on Mount Baldy.
The Commission’s approval was subject to the conditions and requirements from your letter to
the Planning Commission and Town Council of May 23, 2022, The Forest Service Decision
Memo of January 2022, The U. S. Department of Justice’s Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms
and Explosives letter dated March 3, 2021, the Foundation Instructions for the Wyssen
Avalanche tower LS12-5 and the May 25, 2022, Staff Memo to the Alta Planning Commission, all
of which are attached hereto.
The Commission commended you on the completeness of your application and description of
the project during the meeting. During that discussion, the earlier idea of a tram to service
Mount Baldy for avalanche control operations was discussed. The discussion evolved around
the thought that if the RACS worked as they should, the need for a tram to Mount Baldy would
be eliminated. The Commission emphasized that point and hoped that the RACS would
eliminate the need for that tram. You also noted that the manufacturer will spray the towers
with a watershed friendly solution so the towers will more quickly dull from exposure to the
elements to blend in more with the surroundings.
The Commission realized that the next step in this request is a request for a variance the Land
Use Appeal Authority to install the RACS on slope over 30% on Mount Baldy. The Commission
realized that the very nature of ski areas and avalanche control devices requires construction
on slope over 30%. The Commission wished to express their recommendation for a positive
consideration of that variance request to the Appeal Authority for the installation of these
state-of-the-art RACS.
Congratulations on your successful request. Best of luck with the installation this summer.
If you have any questions, please don’t hesitate to contact me.
Best!

john
John H. Guldner
Town Administrator
Town of Alta

Attachments
CC: Alta Planning Commission
    Alta Town Council
    Polly McLean
    Mike Maughan
                                                                                                                1


Brandt Seitz

BW Gas Exploder Testing Summary

05/26/2023

             Blast Wave Evaluation of Prototype “BW” Remote Avalanche Control System
Background:
        Remote Avalanche Control Systems (RACS) are reusable explosive devices that are used
to trigger avalanches as part of avalanche control practices for ski resorts, highway corridors, and
other developed or recreational areas in avalanche terrain. These devices can be activated
electronically from a great distance to reduce the risk to avalanche control personnel who might
otherwise be required to navigate avalanche terrain to use handheld explosive charges. In
general, RACS either detonate a solid explosive (SE) charge or ignite a combustible gas mixture
such as hydrogen or propane and oxygen to generate a directed gas explosion (DGE). The most
common RACS deployed today include the Wyssen Tower – which is a mast-like structure that
releases a solid explosive on a tether to be detonated above the snowpack, Gazex – which is
DGE system that employs a large diameter pipe angled towards the snow surface to direct the
combustion propane and oxygen, and the O’Bellx – which is an egg-shaped DGE device that
combusts a mixture of hydrogen and oxygen.
        In addition to these common RAC systems, Eric Bressler of Alpine Infrastructure has
been developing a new DGE system known as the BW exploder. This exploder uses an inverted
combustion chamber and, in its prototype form, has been configured to combust a variety of
gases including methane and hydrogen (Figure 1).




  Figure 1 – Prototype BW Exploder RAC System designed by Eric Bressler of Alpine Infrastructure installed at
                              Jackson Hole Mountain Resort for system testing.

       In order to evaluate and enhance the design of the BW system, it was vital to establish a
baseline of system performance as well as provide a means of comparison between existing
avalanche control tools such as pentolite charges and existing RAC systems. Fortunately, there
                                                                                                                 2


has been a significant amount of research conducted over the past 100 years focusing on
evaluating the efficacy of avalanche explosives. However, until recently, with the works of
Bones1, Simioni2, Schweizer3, Gubler4, Larson5, and Seitz6 among others, there had not been a
complete evaluation and comparison of in-situ avalanche control explosives, nor had an
established test methodology and suitable measurement system been developed.
        Based on this body of past research, both the test methodology developed by Simioni and
the measurement equipment developed by Seitz were utilized to evaluate the strength, size,
shape, behavior, and other characteristics of the blast waves from BW prototype exploder. The
test methodology focuses on collecting air pressure measurements to characterize the peak
overpressure, pressure rise rate, and energy equivalent of explosive blast waves as well as the
radial decay and directionality of those parameters. The measurement equipment utilized was a
subset of the original equipment developed by Seitz and consisted of six high-pressure acoustic
microphones (i.e., pressure sensors) (Figure 2), connected to several independent, wireless,
Raspberry Pi-based data, high-speed acquisition systems (Figure 3).




            Figure 2 – 10 psi Larcor microphones used to measure explosive blast wave air pressures.




   Figure 3 – Raspberry Pi-based data acquisition systems used to collect high-speed pressure data from Larcor
                                                  microphones.




        1
            Bones, J. A. (2012). Experimental Investigation of Interactions Between Explosive Detonations and the
Resulting Snowpack Response (Issue November). Montana State University.
          2
            Simioni, S. (2017). The Effects of Explosions on Snow. ETH Zurich.
          3
            Simioni, S., & Schweizer, J. (2018). Comparing Two Methods of Artificial Avalanche Triggering: Gas vs.
Solid Explosives. International Snow Science Workshop, 158–161.
          4
            Gubler, H., & Wyssen, S. (2002). Artificial release of avalanches using the remote controlled Wyssen
Avalanche Tower. International Snow Science Workshop, 41(0), 40–45.
          5
            Larson, Robb, et al. Measuring Explosive Airblast of Remote Avalanche Control Systems (RACS), 2022,
rosap.ntl.bts.gov/view/dot/63352/dot_63352_DS1.pdf.
          6
            Seitz, Brandt. Measuring Explosive Airblast of Remote Avalanche Control Systems, Montana State
University - Bozeman, 2021, https://scholarworks.montana.edu/xmlui/handle/1/16418.
                                                                                                                    3


Test Setup:
         On Friday, May 26, 2023, two tests of the prototype BW exploder using a mixture of
methane and oxygen were conducted at the Jackson Hole Mountain Resort near Jackson,
Wyoming. The exploder was installed at the top of a snowy slope near the top of the Thunder
chairlift (Figure 1). This device was located at an elevation of about 9,360 feet on a northernly
slope with an incline of approximately 35°. Conditions at the time of testing were overcast with
temperatures of about 45-55°F. The snowpack exhibited typical late-season conditions with
surface melt and an overall moist to wet moisture content.
         Overall, conditions were similar to those experienced by Seitz in his evaluation of in-situ
RAC systems and solid explosives. However, it is important to note that the installation of the
prototype exploder required it to be erected just off the edge of an access road at the top of the
slope. As a result, the mouth of the exploder’s combustion chamber was initially directed at a
large, flat (i.e., 0° slope angle), and dense snowbank (rather than directed at an acute angle with
the snow-covered slope below as would be typical for an operational RAC system) which had
developed as the snow melted and receded from the access road. Efforts were made to taper this
horizontal snowbank back into the natural slope angle prior to testing to better represent typical
site conditions at an operational RAC system. These efforts were successful, but a small portion
of the snowbank remained below the exploder which may have resulted in a greater portion of
the blast wave being reflected upward rather than directed downslope towards the pressure
sensor array.
         Both tests of the BW exploder were conducted with the following arrangement of
pressure sensors shown in the plan view illustration below (Figure 4) where the plot origin
represents the mouth of the exploder’s combustion chamber and the 0° axis is defined to be
directly downslope (i.e., the slope’s fall-line) of the exploder. Microphones were installed
parallel to, and approximately 6-in above, the surface of the snow as was done for both Simioni’s
and Seitz’s work.




   Figure 4 – Arrangement of pressure sensors utilized for both tests of the prototype BW exploder. NOTE: “2x”
  indicates the number of air pressure measurements taken at each sensor location, the plot origin represents the
                  location of the exploder, and the 0° axis is directly downslope of the exploder.
                                                                                                                     4


Findings:
        Following the testing methodology employed by Simioni and the data processing
methodology developed by Seitz, peak pressures, pressure rise rates, and energy equivalents
were calculated from the pressure-time measurements taken by each microphone in each test. In
addition, power law curve fits were generated along each measured axis to describe the radial
decay of those metrics along the axis and 3D interpolations of the power law curve fits were also
calculated to illustrate and understand the directionality of those metrics.
        Beginning with peak pressures, although measurements were only conducted along two
axes (0° and 45°), the surface plot of peak pressures did indicate a slight directional effect
common to DGE RAC systems where the blast wave tends to be stronger along the 0° axis
(Figure 5). This is also supported by the axial slice plots which indicated a much stronger but
more rapidly decaying wavefront along the 0° axis than the 45° axis (Figure 6 and Figure 7). The
power law coefficients fit to the data along these axes are shown in Table 1. Based on these
power laws, it was also determined that the reference peak pressure (used in Seitz’s work) of 1
kPa or 0.145 psi was reached at a distance of about 92 ft on the 0° axis and 110 ft on the 45°
axis. Lastly, the peak pressure results also indicated a high level of repeatability based on the
consistency of measured peak pressures by microphones left in the same position during both
tests.




 Figure 5 – Surface plot showing the peak pressures recorded and the interpolation of the power law curve fits for
                                           the prototype BW exploder.
                                                                                                                    5




 Figure 6 – Axial slice plot showing the peak pressures along the 0° axis as well as the power law curve fit to those
     measurements and the power law-interpolated location of the 1 kPa or 0.145 psi reference overpressure.




Figure 7 – Axial slice plot showing the peak pressures along the 45° axis as well as the power law curve fit to those
     measurements and the power law-interpolated location of the 1 kPa or 0.145 psi reference overpressure.

 Table 1 – Table of power law curve fit coefficients for peak pressure measurements of the prototype BW exploder.

                                         Power Law         Power Law
                                Axis                                            R2
                                         Coefficient a     Coefficient b
                                 0°          6452              2.37           0.991
                                45°           660              1.79           0.999
        The energy equivalent and pressure rise rate results exhibited the same directionality and
repeatability trends as described above for peak pressures. However, the radial decay of energy
equivalent was found to be the strongest along each axis, followed by pressure rise rate, and
finally by peak pressures (this is consistent with the prior findings of Seitz). In other words, the
energy equivalent of the blast wave decays most quickly with radial distance and the
overpressures decay least rapidly with radial distance. For brevity, only the energy equivalent
and pressure rise rate power law curve fit coefficients are shown below (Table 2 and Table 3).
                                                                                                                6


     Table 2 – Table of power law curve fit coefficients for energy equivalent of the prototype BW exploder.

                                       Power Law         Power Law
                              Axis                                            R2
                                       Coefficient a     Coefficient b
                               0°           232              3.12           0.992
                              45°            25              2.61           0.993
     Table 3 – Table of power law curve fit coefficients for pressure rise rate of the prototype BW exploder.

                                       Power Law         Power Law
                              Axis                                            R2
                                       Coefficient a     Coefficient b
                               0°         8.21e6             2.45           0.995
                              45°         3.01e6             2.17           1.000
Summary:
         Several conclusions, comparisons, and trends can be discussed from the above results.
First, as was observed in Seitz’s previous work (and mentioned above), the BW exploder seems
to follow the same trends observed for other avalanche explosives and RAC systems whereby the
radial decay of energy equivalent was found to be the strongest, followed by pressure rise rate,
and then by peak pressure. One interesting departure from Seitz’s previous body of work,
however, was the magnitude of the radial decay of each of the three parameters. More
specifically, it was previously observed that most explosives had peak pressure power law
exponents of 1.2-1.7, energy equivalent power law exponents in the range of 1.9-2.5, and
pressure rise rate power law exponents of 1.5-2.2. The testing of the prototype BW exploder
however indicated power law exponents of 1.8-2.4, 2.6-3.1, and 2.2-2.5, respectively. Taken at
face value, this could indicate that the BW simply has a stronger radial decay of its blast wave
than previously tested explosives, however, as previously noted, it was found that the power law
exponent seemed to exhibit a stronger correlation with site conditions than explosive. This could
provide some evidence that the previously mentioned snowbank did, in fact, reflect a portion of
the blast wave upward resulting in a greater radial decay of the blast wave at the snow’s surface
– though additional testing and a finer spatial resolution of pressure sensors would be necessary
to confirm. Beyond the comparisons to previously observed trends, these results also provide an
opportunity for comparison to previously tested explosives and RAC systems.
         Comparing the BW first to other DGE systems, it was found that the BW behaves quite
similarly to the O’Bellx RAC system in terms of absolute magnitude of peak pressures and
energy equivalents (with slightly higher magnitudes than the O’Bellx at distances below about
70 feet). This, in turn, places it below a 0.8 m3 and 1.5 m3 Gazex system for peak pressures and
energy equivalents (Figure 8 and Figure 9). In terms of pressure rise rate magnitudes, however,
the BW was found have higher pressure rise rates than both the O’Bellx and 0.8 m3 Gazex
systems for distances below about 125 feet (Figure 10). At distances beyond 125 feet, all devices
generally approach similar pressure rise rates (as described in Seitz’s previous work).
                                                                                                               7




 Figure 8 – Comparison of BW peak pressure results (labeled “ERICA”) to other DGE systems along the 0° axis.




Figure 9 – Comparison of BW energy equivalent results (labeled “ERICA”) to other DGE systems along the 0° axis.
                                                                                                               8




 Figure 10 – Comparison of BW pressure rise rate results (labeled “ERICA”) to other DGE systems along the 0°
                                                    axis.

        Comparing the BW exploder instead to various previously tested solid explosives, it can
be shown that the BW exploder exhibited similar overpressures as (though slightly lower than) a
common 2-lb Pentolite hand charge detonated 2 m above the snow surface. The BW exploder
does, however, fall below the overpressures measured for gel emulsion and Pentolite-based
Wyssen tower charges detonated 2 m above the snow surface as well as a simulated Pentolite-
based Avalanche Guard mortar charge buried 30 cm below the snow surface (Figure 11). As for
energy equivalents, the BW exploder was found to fall below the solid explosive charges at least
up to radial distances of about 100 feet (Figure 12). Lastly, pressure rise rates measured for the
BW exploder actually exceeded those measured for the 2-lb Pentolite hand charge at radial
distances up to about 125 feet (Figure 13).
                                                                                                                9




 Figure 11 – Comparison of BW peak pressure results (labeled “ERICA”) to previously tested solid explosive
                                       charges along the 0° axis.




Figure 12 – Comparison of BW energy equivalent results (labeled “ERICA”) to previously tested solid explosive
                                       charges along the 0° axis.
                                                                                                                             10




           Figure 13 – Comparison of BW pressure rise rate results (labeled “ERICA”) to previously tested solid explosive
                                                   charges along the 0° axis.

             As a final point of comparison, the interpolated radial locations of the 1 kPa overpressure
     for the BW exploder, and all other explosives tested by Seitz, are shown in the table below
     (Table 4). This again indicates that the BW is most comparable to the O’Bellx system but
     exhibited stronger radial decay of overpressures than previously measured.
            Table 4 – Comparison to Seitz’s previous work on the radial locations of the 1 kPa (0.145 psi) peak pressures.
                                Radial Location of 1 kPa (0.145 psi) Peak Pressure Reference (ft)
Axis (°)        BW     2#PEN    15GAZ     OBELL   GELFF    GELWT    PENFF    PENWT      GUARD     PNCLF   OBRCK     PGLY1     PGLY2
   0             92     138      230       115     234      239      404       345       222       429     124       477       490
  30             X       X        X        105      X        X        X         X         X         X      109        X         X
  45            110     141       X         X      246      238      425       346       237       317      X        576       859
  60             X       X       155       188      X        X        X         X         X         X      174        X         X
  90             X      128      113       245     238      215      467       313       227       280      X         X         X
 120             X       X        82        97      X        X        X         X         X         X       X         X         X
 135             X       X        X         X      257      212      466       300       232        X       X         X         X
 150             X       X        X        110      X        X        X         X         X         X       X         X         X
 180             X       X        X         96     242      198      466       319       214        X       X         X         X


              In summary, the preliminary testing results of the BW exploder presented above indicate
     that it has very promising performance characteristics such as its overpressures and energy
     equivalents that place it well within the previously observed performance of established DGE
     systems like the O’Bellx and Gazex. Furthermore, the relatively high pressure rise rates observed
     for the BW system seem to place it somewhere above other DGE systems and even 2-lb Pentolite
     charges, but still below other larger solid explosives such as those used in Wyssen Tower RAC
     systems. Lastly, the BW exploder indicated a stronger radial decay of peak pressures, energy
     equivalents, and pressure rise rates than previously observed for any other explosive or RAC
     system, but it is unclear at this point whether this is an inherent limitation in the design of the
     BW exploder or was rather the result of environmental factors and/or testing conditions.
