                                   SOUTH JORDAN CITY
                              CITY COUNCIL STUDY MEETING

                                         August 4, 2020

Present:       Mayor Dawn Ramsey, Council Member Patrick Harris, Council Member Brad
               Marlor, Council Member Jason McGuire, Council Member Don Shelton, Council
               Member Tamara Zander, CM Gary Whatcott, ACM Dustin Lewis, City Attorney
               Ryan Loose, Public Works Director Jason Rasmussen, Engineering Director Brad
               Klavano, City Recorder Anna Crookston, City Commerce Director Brian Preece,
               Deputy Fire Chief Ryan Lessner, Strategic Services Director Don Tingey, Police
               Chief Jeff Carr, Administrative Services Director Spencer Kyle, Planning
               Director Steven Schaefermeyer, Planner David Mann, CFO Sunil Naidu,
               Communications Manager Rachel VanCleave, IT Director Jon Day, City Council
               Secretary MaryAnn Dean

Others:    Attendance electronically via Zoom

4:30 PM
STUDY MEETING

       A. Welcome, Roll Call and Introduction: Mayor Dawn R. Ramsey

Mayor Ramsey welcomed everyone present. All members of the City Council were present. She
introduced the electronic meeting.

       B. Invocation: By City Engineer, Brad Klavano

City Engineer Klavano offered the invocation.

       C. Mayor and Council Coordination

Council Member Harris recommended under Council report, if they have something to report
they should, but in order to speed up the meeting, they should consider not stating events that
they attended.

Council Member Zander said she sees value in sharing significant things that they are working
on. She does not want to eliminate those reports, but they can be brief.

Council Member Marlor said it is important for the public to know what they are doing. He
concurred that it should be brief and succinct.

Council Member Shelton said he likes the reports, but also likes the idea of brevity.

Council Member McGuire said Peterson Development was scheduled to come to the study
session today to talk about Harvest Pointe, but they decided not to participate in today’s meeting.
South Jordan City                                                                                     2
City Council Study Meeting
August 4, 2020

Mayor Ramsey concurred that they removed themselves from the agenda. They will come back
at a later date, possibly later in September.

Mayor Ramsey said she met with the Jordan School District this morning. About 20 percent of
the students have opted to take school online for fall term, which is approximately 11,000
students. She said every teacher that wanted to teach online will be able to, but there are some
specialty classes in high school that are trickier to coordinate.

Council Member Harris said it is great that people have the option to choose. He asked if that
will reduce the classroom size to give sufficient spacing? Mayor Ramsey said they have not
determined it grade by grade, class by class yet. She said the students won’t sit 3 ft. apart. They
are creating as much distance as possible. They are doing everything they can to keep people
safe.

Mayor Ramsey said the Mayor of Salt Lake County is appropriating $10 million for the School
Districts in Salt Lake County to apply for qualifying grants. She said a formula will be used to
determine how those funds are distributed.

         D. Discussion/Review of Regular Council Meeting

The City Council reviewed the items on the regular City Council agenda.

CM Whatcott said the pickle ball courts are open. He said September 11, 12, and 13 are
employee appreciation days at mulligans. He said the farmers market opened last weekend, and
will run through October.

Council Member Zander asked if the pickle ball courts at the main city park have lighting? CM
Whatcott said yes. He believes the lights turn off at 10.

Council Member Marlor asked if they are planning a ribbon cutting for the pickle ball courts?
CM Whatcott said they could get together with masks, or have a delayed ribbon cutting.
Administrative Services Director Kyle said Salt Lake County tried to do a virtual ribbon cutting
for one of their projects, and it did not go over well.

Council Member Zander said she feels they should do a ribbon cutting and share positive things
happening. CM Whatcott said they should not gather a large crowd, and suggested City Council
members only. Council Member Marlor concurred that they could do a small group and
publicize something positive and a reason to celebrate. Council Member Harris said he would be
supportive if it is not a large gathering.

City Attorney Loose said with the city’s declaration, they need to make sure it is a very small
group.

Administrative Services Director Kyle said staff will put together a plan and coordinate dates
with the City Council. They discussed putting a video together as part of the marketing of the
pickle ball courts.
South Jordan City                                                                                     3
City Council Study Meeting
August 4, 2020



Council Member Shelton asked if they are also considering a ground breaking for the Bingham
Creek park? He noted that his neighbor has a time lapse video of the construction; they may
consider putting that on the city’s website.

CM Whatcott said they would need to include the County in the ribbon cutting. Mr. Tingey said
initially, the County had concerns about a large gathering and that is why the 2 mayors met on
site. They can check and see if the County is open to a ribbon cutting now.

         E. Direction Item: Staff – flag lot overlay zone. (By Director of Planning, Steven
            Schaefermeyer)

Planning Director Schaefermeyer referred to the draft zone language and asked if that is the
direction that the City Council is comfortable with?

Council Member Shelton asked if it addresses the applicant’s issue so that they are able to
subdivide their lot? Mr. Schaefermeyer said he believes so.

Council Member Shelton asked how they avoid being arbitrary with this? Mr. Schaefermeyer
indicated that zoning is flexible. City Attorney Loose said if they allow a flag lot, they are not
able to change the zoning of that subdivision or property. Mr. Schaefermeyer concurred. He said
the language requires that additional lots not violate the density requirements of the underlying
zone. He said eventually, someone could be denied the request because they already met the
density for the subdivision. The flag lots would be done on a first come first serve basis. City
Attorney Loose concurred that this does allow certain flag lots, but there are still guard rails on
the policy.

Mr. Schaefermeyer indicated that the fees associated with developing a flag lot are prohibitive
for some. He suspects the Council could see a handful of flag lot applications every year.

Council Member Marlor said as property values continue to increase, he feels they will see more
requests for flag lots because the larger lots are more difficult to maintain, and other options may
present themselves to those property owners.

Council Member Marlor said this provides a new tool for the City Council to have some
flexibility, but it is still restrictive.

Mr. Schaefermeyer said the eligible properties for flag lots will be the oldest subdivisions in the
city.

City Attorney Loose said this also requires notice to be given to the surrounding residents. Mr.
Schaefermeyer said the applicant also has to give a letter, justifying why the change makes sense
in the area.

Council Member Shelton said staff has done a good job working through this, and he is
supportive of the overlay zone.
South Jordan City                                                                                     4
City Council Study Meeting
August 4, 2020



Council Member McGuire thanked staff for their work on the overlay zone. He said he is still
struggling with this. He is concerned it could be a race to see who turns in applications first. He
said he is concerned it could change the zone of the subdivisions that people bought into.

Council Member Zander clarified that if someone did a flag lot, they would not allow the zoning
to be altered? Mr. Schaefermeyer said each addition of a lot would recalculate the density and
they would ensure that they are still within the density requirements of the subdivision.

Council Member Harris said because of the requirements, they would still be fairly large lots.
Mr. Schaefermeyer said they still have to meet the minimum lot size requirements. He said flag
lots include long driveways and that is included in that calculation.

Council Member Harris said one complaint he receives is when people have large lots and fill it
full of junk. In some cases, subdividing and developing the lot could improve it. But he does not
want to open this wide open.

Council Member Marlor said he is comfortable with the proposed language. He believes more
requests will come in the future, but he likes the conservative approach at this time.

Council Member Zander said she is comfortable with it. She agreed that it could beautify some
of the lots.

City Attorney Loose said they will discuss this with the applicant and move forward. Mr.
Schaefermeyer said they hope to have it back on the agenda in September.

ADJOURNMENT

Council Member Zander made a motion to adjourn. Council Member Shelton seconded the
motion. The vote was unanimous in favor.

The August 4, 2020 City Council study meeting adjourned at 5:41 p.m.

This is a true and correct copy of the August 4, 2020 City Council Study Meeting Minutes, which
were approved on August 18, 2020.


South Jordan City Recorder
