                                   SOUTH JORDAN CITY
                              CITY COUNCIL STUDY MEETING

                                          January 7, 2020

Present:       Mayor Pro Tempore Brad Marlor, Council Member Patrick Harris, Council
               Member Jason McGuire, Council Member Don Shelton, CM Gary Whatcott,
               ACM Dustin Lewis, City Attorney Ryan Loose, Public Works Director Jason
               Rasmussen, Planning Director Steven Schaefermeyer, City Council Secretary
               MaryAnn Dean

Others:        Attachment A

STUDY MEETING

Council Member McGuire welcomed everyone present. He said Mayor Ramsey will be joining
the meeting electronically, if possible.

Council Member McGuire made a motion to nominate Council Member Marlor to be the
Mayor Pro Tempore for the meeting, unless Mayor Ramsey joins the meeting. Council
Member Shelton seconded the motion. The vote was 4-0 in favor.

Mayor Pro Tempore Marlor excused Council Member Zander and Mayor Ramsey who are not
present this evening.

   A. Invocation: By Council Member, Patrick Harris

Council Member Harris offered the invocation.

   B. Mayor and Council Coordination

Council Member Shelton said tonight, they will be looking at a Resolution that the Western
Growth Coalition passed in December that he would like the City Council’s support. He said
there are several projects that have been identified by the Wasatch Front Regional Council for
the west side of the valley that are needed over the next 5 years, but none are funded. No funding
source has been identified. He said the solution is to ask the legislature to prioritize funding for
those projects.

CM Whatcott said he attended a UDOT meeting in December. He said he and Mayor Ramsey
asked UDOT to move their section of the Mountain View Corridor project to phase 1 so it is all
one project, from South Jordan through Utah County. He said their project was one of only 3
projects moved to phase 1. If funding comes to UDOT, their project will be in for some funds.

Council Member Marlor noted an email received regarding Olympia Hills. That development is
going to be discussed with the County Council this month. There are many people opposing it.
One of the largest concerns is transportation.
South Jordan City                                                                                    2
City Council Study Meeting
January 7, 2020



    C. Discussion/Review of Regular Council Meeting

CM Whatcott said for item I.3. on the agenda, the list is still a draft so it was not added to the
Resolution. City Attorney Loose said they can acknowledge the finalized list and attach it to the
Resolution at the City Council meeting on the 21st.

Mayor Pro Tempore Marlor said Council Member Zander sent an email regarding her
appointment to the Planning Commission.

It was noted that for item K., the roads will remain private. The City is just taking on the storm
drain as a maintenance item.

Council Member Harris said he is the president of the HOA for item K. He said he talked to City
Attorney Loose about the conflict. City Attorney Loose said the conflict has been disclosed.
There is not a specific financial gain. He does not feel Council Member Harris is required to
recuse himself on the vote. Council Member Harris said he did not bring the issue to staff;
another board member handled it.

CM Whatcott said there is a closed meeting needed at the end of the City Council meeting to
discuss a real estate sale issue.

It was noted that Mayor Ramsey would not be joining the work session electronically.

    D. Presentation Item: Jordan Valley Water Policy Changes. By Alan Packard – JVWCD)

Alan Packard, Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District (JVWCD) Assistant General Manager,
reviewed a prepared presentation (Attachment B). He recognized Scott Osborne from the Board
of Trustees, representing South Jordan, who was also present.

It was noted that any property not within the JVWCD boundaries would be subject to the Block
2 rate. This would include unincorporated Salt Lake County. Mr. Osborne said those within the
JVWCD boundaries have been paying property taxes for the development of water infrastructure
for decades. Those not within the boundaries have not been paying the property taxes. Mr.
Osborne said Block 2 will have a supplemental charge indefinitely. He said that is the cost of the
water. Those that have been involved in paying for the water for decades have the lower rate.

Council Member McGuire asked with the Bear River project, will there eventually be a Block 3
rate at a higher amount? Mr. Packard said yes.

Mayor Pro Tempore Marlor said this is essentially an impact fee. He asked if JVWCD has to go
through a legislative process to get the Block 2 rate approved? Mr. Packard said no because the
Block 2 rate is perpetual. They do impact fees on a retail level, but they do not impose impact
fees on a wholesale level.
South Jordan City                                                                                   3
City Council Study Meeting
January 7, 2020

Mr. Osborne said impact fees have to be expended over a certain period of time. Water projects
take decades to complete so the model of an impact fee does not work.

Mr. Packard said for all new water purchase agreements, there will be a requirement to
implement water efficiency standards.

Council Member Harris asked if there are properties annexed into the city, will they be at the
Block 2 rate? What about other areas within the South Jordan City boundaries? It was noted that
properties annexed into the city would pay the Block 2 rate. Areas within the current city
boundaries could use the Block 1 rate, but have to meet the water efficient policies.

Public Works Director Rasmussen said the city will need a new water purchase agreement with
future development.

Mr. Osborne said they can only support the 20 percent over their contracted amount, if JVWCD
has that water available.

Mr. Packard said if South Jordan wants to increase their contract amount, to avoid the Block 2
rate, JVWCD would have to work with the city and ensure that they have taken the steps needed
to make sure water efficient standards are in place. Mr. Rasmussen said staff will be proposing
the landscape Ordinance changes on new construction and they will propose an increase in their
JVWCD contract. They would be buying the water under the Block 1 rate.

Mayor Pro Tempore Marlor asked if this structure is similar to their sister cities? Mr. Packard
said yes. Kearns has a 25 percent overage built into their contract. They have had that for
decades.

Council Member Harris asked if farm use uses more water as a farm or developed? Mr. Packard,
said in general, they use a little more water for agricultural use rather than homes.

Mr. Packard noted that in their assumptions, they assumed on the remaining 49 acres, it would be
double the current overall density of the city.

Council Member Harris asked if they develop at a density higher than is being forecasted, will
they pay higher water rates? Mr. Packard said no, as long as the city demonstrates that all new
construction is meeting water efficient standards. He said if everyone in the current service area
builds at a triple rate instead of double, the Block 1 costs will increase, but not jump to the Block
2 rates.

Mr. Packard said they will present their plan to the Legislature, as they have the opportunity to
do so. They have also been working with homebuilders and encouraging them to embrace the
local scape concept. He said Ivory Homes has agreed that the local scape concept will be their
default landscaping.
South Jordan City                                                                                    4
City Council Study Meeting
January 7, 2020

Council Member McGuire asked how much does the local scape landscaping add onto the home
price? Mr. Packard said it depends on the size of the lot. He estimated $3000-$4000 on a ¼ acre
lot.

Mr. Osborne said he believes the changes are a good thing and the right thing.

It was noted that all JVWCD member cities will have to start adopting changes to meet the new
requirements.

    E. Discussion Item: Amendment of Development Agreement for Ridgeview @ South
       Jordan (aka Ridgepoint). (By Applicant Lennar – Matt Anderson, VP Land Acquisition)

Planning Director Schaefermeyer said staff felt that one of the home plans presented was outside
the scope of the development agreement, so they brought it to the City Council for review.

Matt Anderson, Lennar homes, reviewed the site plan and home plans for the proposed
development (Attachment C). He said they feel all of their home plans are within the guidelines,
but staff felt one plan was out of the scope of what the City Council wants. The issue is that the 3
car garage is separated, with a 2 car garage on one side of the home and a 1 car garage on the
other side. He said he met with Council Member Zander who expressed concern about the
amount of driveway space on the street. They increased the landscaping between the two
driveways to mitigate that.

Mr. Anderson said there would be a maximum of 5 homes built with that particular style.

Mr. Schaefermeyer said this amendment would specifically allow this home type. He said staff’s
concern was that the home starts to look like an Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU). He said
ADU’s are not allowed in this zone. It was noted that the home would be over 5,000 sq. ft. with
the basement.

Mr. Anderson said anyone could do an ADU in their basement. Mr. Schaefermeyer said a
building permit would be needed to change the kitchen. Also only 1 meter is allowed. He said
staff gets calls every day from homeowners wanting to do an ADU in their home. He said if a
homeowner tried to get a permit to make the single car garage side a separate unit, it would be
denied. The other concern is that single car garages force parking in the street, if it is an ADU.

Mr. Anderson said they are comfortable putting a cap of how many of these units would be
allowed to be built. They can’t build certain type of homes next to each other, per the
development agreement. He noted that this home is built throughout the country, including
Colorado, and he feels this home type offers variety in the neighborhood.

Mr. Anderson said Council Member Zander told him that she felt this was a positive solution for
some of their housing affordability issues, since parents or kids could stay in the home. It was
noted that this home type would start in the $700,000 range.
South Jordan City                                                                                       5
City Council Study Meeting
January 7, 2020

Council Member Harris said he is okay with the housing type, if it is limited. He said his
consideration is the aging population. He said he would not be okay with a similar proposal at a
lower price point. He said at this price point, it is less likely to be a rental. He does not want to
set a precedent for smaller homes.

Mr. Schaefermeyer said they will be discussing ADU’s as part of the general plan.

Council Member Harris said he is concerned about a larger vehicle being parked in the road, if
they can’t fit in the single car garage. Mr. Schaefermeyer noted that there is a full driveway. Mr.
Anderson said the garage and driveway have proven adequate in their experience.

Council Member Harris asked if they can require a wider single car garage? Mr. Anderson said it
is possible, but that may preclude them from fitting on the lot if they make the home wider.

Council Member McGuire said he likes the concept. As home prices continue to increase, he
feels they will see more of this type of home.

Council Member Shelton said his first impression is that it was an ADU. He said he likes the
elevation drawings on the builders website. He is okay with the home plan.

Mayor Pro Tempore Marlor concurred. He is concerned about the ADU issue. If they build 5
units and see problems, they might have to address it again for future developments.

    F. Discussion Item: Tom Buckley Car Dealership / Pending Ordinance Zoning Change. (By
       Planning Director, Steven Schaefermeyer)

Community Development Director Preece said the proposal is to buy the gun vault and put a
Bentley dealership in this location. A car dealership is not an allowed use in this zone, because of
it being a boutique dealership, staff is comfortable with it going in this location. The proposal is
to use the PD floating zone to allow it. The approval of the pending Ordinance zoning change
would give the applicant some level of comfort moving forward. It would then go through the
normal process with review by the Planning Commission and City Council.

Tom Buckley, applicant, indicated that the dealership in this location would be a short term use.
The long term dealership would be located by the freeway. They anticipate that will open in 2
years. He discussed the proposed improvements that will be made to the existing building.
Renderings of the building were provided (Attachment D).

Council Member Harris asked about the use of the building after the Bentley dealership is done
with it? Mr. Buckley said they anticipate selling it as a high end office use.

Mr. Schaefermeyer said the proposal is to do the floating zone, specific for this project. When
the Bentley dealership is done, it would revert back to the CC zone.

It was noted that this item will be discussed in the regular City Council meeting.
South Jordan City                                                                        6
City Council Study Meeting
January 7, 2020

ADJOURNMENT

Council Member Shelton made a motion to adjourn. Council Member McGuire seconded
the motion. The vote was unanimous in favor.

The January 7, 2020 City Council study session adjourned at 6:37 p.m.

This is a true and correct copy of the January 7, 2020 City Council Study Meeting Minutes,
which were approved on January 21, 2020.

South Jordan City Recorder
    Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District
        New Wholesale Block Rate and Water
                Efficiency Standards Policies
      South Jordan City Council Work Session




                                                      Alan Packard
                                                Assistant General Manager

                                                       Jan 7, 2020


1




2
                                                                                              Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District
                                                                                                  Drought Year Water Supply Plan
                                                                                                            (Updated March 2019)
                         250
                                      Bear River


                                      Jordan River/Utah Lake R/O Treatment new 14 MGD North
                                      Plant                                                           Demand Projections and Supply Projects
                                      Expand SWGWTP to total 14 MGD
                         200
                                      ULS


                                      Central Water Project (CWP)


                                      Southwest Jordan Valley Groundwater Project
    Thousand Acre-Feet




                         150
                                      Existing JVWCD Water Supplies


                                      Total demand on JVWCD system assuming 25%
                                      conservation by 2025 (191 gpcd) and further reduction to
                                      180 gpcd by 2065
                         100




                          50




                          0
                               2000         2005           2010            2015             2020     2025       2030          2035       2040   2045   2050   2055   2060   2065

                                                                                                                       Year



3




4
                                                                               Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District
                                                                      Drought Year Water Supply Plan with Climate Change Effects
                                                                                                        (Updated March 2019)

                         250
                                      Bear River


                                      Jordan River/Utah Lake R/O Treatment new 14 MGD North Plant
                                                                                                     Demand Projections and Supply Projects
                                      Expand SWGWTP to total 14 MGD
                         200
                                      ULS


                                      Central Water Project (CWP)


                                      Existing JVWCD Water Supplies
    Thousand Acre-Feet




                         150
                                      Total demand on JVWCD system assuming 25% conservation by
                                      2025, then climate change combined with further conservation
                                      results in net 191 gpcd by 2060
                                      Total Demand on JVWCD system assuming 2000 usage rates*


                                      Historical Demand
                         100




                          50




                          0
                               2000         2005          2010             2015            2020      2025       2030        2035        2040   2045   2050   2055   2060   2065

                                                                                                                Year



5




                                 What is the Role of Waterwise
                           Landscaping in SW Salt Lake Valley Growth?




6
                      60%



                      40%

7




    What Utahns Want from their Landscapes


      Designed for Utah     Lower Maintenance


      Better Curb Appeal    Simplified Irrigation


      Easy to Understand    Water Efficient

      Improved
                            Any Budget
      Functionality


8
     Increases Curb Appeal


                             Before
                             After




9




     Utah Localscape




10
     Reduces maintenance
     Localscapes graduate, new home landscape installation




11




     Simplifies irrigation
     Localscapes graduate, new home landscape installation




12
                       Save 130,000 gallons per year

                                           196,250*           64,766
                                           gallons per       gallons per
                                             season            season




     * Typical use of 40” of water per season on a quarter acre lot, applied with automatic sprinklers

13




            Education                              Incentives                  Structural/Regulations



                                         Toilets and Smart Controllers
          Customer bills
     Web portals and use alerts
        Water use reports                                                         Landscape ordinances
     Landscape Consultations                                                       Plumbing standards
                                                                                   Secondary metering




                                                                                                         14


14
                   Conditions for Annexation
                   of New Lands into JVWCD




15




     Conditions of Annexation


     • Implement Water Efficiency Standards
       for all new construction

     • Pay Block 2 Wholesale Rate for water
       serving new lands


16
          Water Efficiency Standards

     A.    Indoor fixtures (e.g. toilets, showerheads,
           faucets, etc.) shall be WaterSense labeled

     B.    Outdoor Landscaping Standards
            • Irrigation controllers to be WaterSense certified
            • Conform to Localscapes requirements, including
              limited turf lawn areas to 35% of total landscape
              area for residential landscapes, and 20% for
              commercial, industrial, and institutional
              landscapes

17




18
19




 Changes to Rules and Regulations
   for Wholesale Water Service
     • New water purchase agreements which
       increase the minimum purchase amount, are
       subject to the Member Agency implementing
       the District’s water efficiency standards
       (applicable to all new construction)
     • Beginning July 1, 2020, water taken in excess
       of 120% of minimum purchase contract
       amount will be charged at the Block 2 rate
20
       South Jordan City Water Purchase Contract
                                Minimum Purchase Amount(a): 12,867 AF
                                            20% Allowance: 2,573 AF
                                 Zone A Remediated Amount: 1,333 AF
                                                            16,773 AF(b)
                               Year                                             Deliveries (AF/Year)
                               2016                                                        15,089
                               2017                                                        15,157
                               2018                                                        16,729
                               2019                                           15,175 (subject to QA/QC review)
     Notes: a) Includes the City’s allocation of Zone B and Lost Use Water from the Southwest Jordan Valley Groundwater Project
            b) Block 2 water rate would be charged for any deliveries exceeding 16,773 AF

21




                                  QUESTIONS ?

22
                  What are the Effects of Increasing Land
                 Development Density on Water Deliveries?




23




     Residential Retail Service Area Density Analysis Results


                                                                                                                                 Retail Service Area Density Analysis Results


                                                                                                    250
                                                                                                                                                                                             7,000,000


                                                                                                                                                                                             6,000,000
                                                                Gallons Per Person Per Day (GPCD)




                                                                                                    200

                                                                                                                                                                                             5,000,000
     People / Acre          GPCD            Gallons / Acre
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Gallons Per Acre




                                                                                                    150
       (density)        (trended use)    (trended volume)                                                                                                                                    4,000,000
          10                 177               615,211
          20                 162              1,066,772                                             100                                                                                      3,000,000
          30                 146              1,518,333
                                                                                                                                                                                             2,000,000
          40                 130              1,969,894
                                                                                                     50
          50                 115              2,421,455
                                                                                                                                                                                             1,000,000


                                                                                                      0                                                                                      0
                                                                                                          1   6   11 16 21 26 31 36 41 46 51 56 61 66 71 76 81 86 91 96
                                                                                                                                             People Per Acre




                                                                                                          Gallons Per Capita Per Day (GPCD) - Relationship Trendline   Gallons Per Acre - Relationship Trendline




24
1-7-2020 CC Study Mtg - Attachment C




                     COPPERLEAF FLOORPLANS
 SUN VALLEY
 2,698 Finished Square Feet




         Traditional Front Elevation
       Stone Required: 598 Square Feet                           First Floor              Second Floor
       Stone Provided: 6 0 8 Square Feet




Contemporary Front Elevation               Contemporary Side Elevation         Contemporary Rear Elevation
 SILVERTON
 2,768 Finished Square Feet




         Traditional Front Elevation
       Stone Required: 588 Square Feet
       Stone Provided: 735 Square Feet                        First Floor             Second Floor




Contemporary Front Elevation             Contemporary Side Elevation        Contemporary Rear Elevation
TIMBERLINE
3,080 Finished Square Feet




      Contemporary Front Elevation
      Stone Required: 576 Square Feet
      Stone Provided: 796 Square Feet                      First Floor            Second Floor




Farmhouse Front Elevation               Farmhouse Side Elevation         Farmhouse Rear Elevation
SUPERHOME
3,747 Finished Square Feet




      Contemporary Front Elevation
      Stone Required: 624 Square Feet
      Stone Provided: 793 Square Feet                        First Floor             Second Floor




Traditional Front Elevation             Traditional Side Elevation         Traditional Rear Elevation
        COLOR SCHEMES
SCHEME 1




    Siding           Trim        Front Door          Stone              Roof        Garage Door   Soffit & Fascia   Windows
  Arctic White    Arctic White   TricornBlack     Ashen Drystack      Moire Black      White           Black         White


SCHEME 2




    Siding           Trim        Front Door           Stone             Roof        Garage Door   Soffit & Fascia   Windows
CountryLane Red   Arctic White     White        Ashen Weatherledge    Moire Black      White          White          White


SCHEME 3




    Siding           Trim        Front Door           Stone             Roof        Garage Door   Soffit & Fascia   Windows
    Naval         Arctic White     White        Elkwood TuscanRidge   Moire Black      White          White          White
       COLOR SCHEMES
SCHEME 4




   Siding           Trim        Front Door          Stone             Roof         Garage Door   Soffit & Fascia   Windows
 Amazing Gray   Rich Espresso   TricornBlack   Arizona Drystack     Moire Black       Taupe       Dark Bronze       White


SCHEME 5




    Siding         Trim         Front Door          Stone             Roof         Garage Door   Soffit & Fascia   Windows
   Riverway     Arctic White      White        Arizona Drystack   Weathered Wood      White          White          White


SCHEME6




    Siding         Trim         Front Door        Stone               Roof         Garage Door   Soffit & Fascia   Windows
  Aged Pewter   Arctic White    TricornBlack   Ashen Drystack       Moire Black       White           Black         White
        COLOR SCHEMES
SCHEME 7




    Siding           Trim        Front Door           Stone                Roof         Garage Door   Soffit & Fascia   Windows
  Cobble Stone   Rich Espresso   TricornBlack    Prestige Drystack       Moire Black       White          White          White


SCHEME 8




    Siding          Trim         Front Door            Stone               Roof         Garage Door   Soffit & Fascia   Windows
  Timber Bark    CobbleStone      Sommelier     Steinhaus Stackledge   Weathered Wood      Taupe       Desert Sand       White


SCHEME 6




    Siding          Trim         Front Door           Stone                Roof         Garage Door   Soffit & Fascia   Windows
   Gray Slate    Arctic White      White        Elkwood TuscanRidge      Moire Black       White          White          White
1-7-20 Study Mtg - Attachment D
