                                 SOUTH JORDAN CITY
                          CITY COUNCIL EMERGENCY MEETING

                                          July 24, 2020

Present:       Mayor Dawn Ramsey, Council Member Patrick Harris, Council Member Brad
               Marlor, Council Member Jason McGuire, Council Member Don Shelton, Council
               Member Tamara Zander, CM Gary Whatcott, City Attorney Ryan Loose, Police
               Chief Jeff Carr, Fire Chief Chris Dawson, Water Manager Cary Necaise, City
               Recorder Anna Crookston, IT Director Jon Day


9:30 a.m.
EMERGENCY MEETING

       A. Welcome, Roll Call, and Introduction to Electronic Meeting

Mayor Ramsey read a statement regarding the electronic meeting (Attachment A).

Council Member McGuire made a motion to go into a closed meeting pursuant to UCA §
52-4-205(1)(f) discussion regarding deployment of security personnel, devices, or systems.
Council Member Zander seconded the motion. The vote was unanimous in favor.

       B. Closed Meeting Pursuant to UCA § 52-4-205(1)(f). “discussion regarding
          deployment of security personnel, devices, or systems”.

Council Member Marlor made a motion to go out of closed meeting and back into an open
City Council meeting. Council Member Harris seconded the motion. The vote was
unanimous in favor.

ADJOURNMENT

Council Member Zander made a motion to adjourn. Council Member McGuire seconded
the motion. The vote was unanimous in favor.

The July 24, 2020 City Council emergency meeting was adjourned at 10:04 a.m.

This is a true and correct copy of the July 24, 2020 City Council Meeting Minutes, which were
approved on August 18, 2020.


South Jordan City Recorder
 I, Dawn R. Ramsey, the Mayor of the City of South Jordan and Chair of the South Jordan City Council
Meetings, hereby determine that conducting South Jordan City Council Meetings at an anchor location
presents a substantial risk to the health and safety of those who may be present at the anchor location. The
President of the United States, The Governor of Utah, the County Health Department and Mayor, the Mayor
of South Jordan City, and the World Health Organization have all recognized a global pandemic exists related
to the new strain of the coronavirus, SARS- CoV-2 and outbreaks of the coronavirus disease COVID-19 that has
now spread globally including in Utah. Due to the State of emergency caused by the global pandemic, the
current situation in Utah and specifically in Salt Lake County, and the manner in which the COVID-19 virus
spreads in groups, I find that conducting a meeting at an anchor location under the current state of public
health emergency constitutes a substantial risk to the health and safety of those who may be present at the
anchor location. According to information from State Epidemiology, the Stateis currently in an acceleration
phase, which has the potential to threaten the State’s healthcare system. This determination not to meet in
an anchor location shall be valid for thirty days.
