                                    SOUTH JORAN CITY
                                  CITY COUNCIL MEETING

                                       February 18, 2020

Present:       Mayor Dawn Ramsey, Council Member Patrick Harris, Council Member Brad
               Marlor, Council Member Jason McGuire, Council Member Don Shelton, Council
               Member Tamara Zander, CM Gary Whatcott, Police Chief Jeff Carr,
               Administrative Services Director Spencer Kyle, City Commerce Director Brian
               Preece, Finance Director Sunil Naidu, Strategic Services Director Don Tingey,
               ACM Dustin Lewis, City Attorney Ryan Loose, Fire Chief Chris Dawson,
               Planning Director Steven Schaefermeyer, Engineering Director Brad Klavano,
               Public Works Director Jason Rasmussen, IT Director Jon Day, City Council
               Secretary MaryAnn Dean

Others:        Attachment A

REGULAR MEETING

       A. Welcome and Roll Call – Mayor Dawn Ramsey

Mayor Ramsey welcomed everyone present.

       B. Invocation – By Administrative Services Director, Spencer Kyle

Administrative Services Director Kyle offered the invocation.

       C. Pledge of Allegiance – By Police Chief, Jeff Carr

Police Chief Carr led the audience in the Pledge of Allegiance.

       D. Minute Approval

           D.1. January 29, 2020 Budget Meeting #1
           D.2. February 4, 2020 Council Study Meeting
           D.3. February 4, 2020 City Council Meeting

Council Member Harris made a motion to approve the January 29, 2020 City Council
budget meeting #1 minutes, the February 4, 2020 City Council study meeting minutes, and
the February 4, 2020 City Council meeting minutes, as printed. Council Member Zander
seconded the motion. The vote was unanimous in favor.

       E. Mayor and Council Reports

Council Member Zander reported on the recent Date Dash in the South Jordan race series
(Attachment B). She noted that the Gold Rush race is scheduled for March 14th at 10 a.m. She
reviewed the rest of the races in the race series this year.
South Jordan City                                                                                      2
City Council Meeting
February 18, 2020




Council Member Zander reported on a recent event held by her personal business and she
thanked those that attended.

Council Member McGuire said he attended several legislative policy committee meetings. He
attended the Arts Council meeting; they are working on the trail wall murals. He noted that the
utility box wrap program is moving forward, but it is a separate project from the arts projects
recently brought to the City Council.

Council Member Marlor indicated that he will be participating in some South Jordan fun runs
this race season.

Council Member Harris thanked Council Member Zander for her recent event. He said his wife
and son attended the mother/son Harry Potter event, and he thanked staff for the successful
event. He said he talked to a number of people running for various elected offices. He met with
the Historical Preservation Committee; they are doing write ups for historical sites to put on the
website. He said he is getting questions about cricket and asked if it will be available in the
Bingham Creek Regional Park?

Strategic Services Director Tingey said they are designing the fields so there is spacing for
cricket, but he is not sure if the pitch will be included in the construction. Council Member
Harris said the cricket group has indicated that they will pay the cost to put a pitch in if needed.

Council Member Shelton indicated that he has attended some family events since their last
meeting. He attended the legislative roundup. He noted that Herriman City approved the Western
Growth Coalition Resolution. He has heard that Riverton, Taylorsville, and West Valley will be
approving the Resolution as well.

Mayor Ramsey said she met with the Southwest Mayors (picture – Attachment C). She said she
met with the Governor’ staff and the Attorney General (picture – Attachment D) regarding the
opioid settlement. They are working to collect money as a state to help fight opioid addiction.
She noted the commemoration of when they passed the law allowing Utah women the right to
vote (picture – Attachment E). She also noted the 150th anniversary of a woman to cast a vote in
the United States, which was in Utah. They held a celebration commemoration (Picture –
Attachment E). She had breakfast with Catholic Community services and talked with Pamela
Atkinson. She attended the legislative priority committee meeting. She heard from Robert
Marbut, Executive Director of the US interagency Council on homelessness. He said Utah is
doing better than most states. She said the Senate confirmed her to serve on the JVWCD Board
of Directors. She said she met with the Jordan Education Foundation and noted the partnership
with the Chamber of Commerce. She said she attended the Daybreak Elementary spelling bee
and the Welby Elementary DARE graduation.

         F. Public Comment
South Jordan City                                                                                  3
City Council Meeting
February 18, 2020



Steve Carter, 10927 S. Temple Dr. asked for electric speed limit signs to be placed on Temple
Drive. He said their telephone pole has been taken out 3 times and their insurance was cancelled.
He said they have had their brick mailbox taken out. They have also had cars take out the
neighbors fence. He said they would like a couple of signs for safety reasons. He noted that their
neighbor had their trailer taken out.

Kevin Johnson, 11009 S. Temple Dr., said he lives down the road from Mr. Carter. He said cars
clear 100 mph on the road in the middle of the night. He said a blinking sign would slow cars
down.

Jay DeMill, 10979 S. Temple Dr., echoed the previous comments. He said the speed is
excessive. He asked that the city at least do a study there. He said they had a car drive across
their neighbors yard and it ended up in his driveway hitting the travel trailer. He said their
mailbox has been taken out 3 times. He also recommended the speed flashing signs.

Mr. Klavano said they put out counters to do a speed study a week ago. They will gather the data
and take it to the traffic committee next month. He said the police department will also be putting
a trailer out there.

         G. Action Item: Resolution R2020-14, appointing members to the Arts Council. (By
            Administrative Services Director, Spencer Kyle)

Administrative Services Director Kyle said they have one new appointment and several
reappointments. They are appointing Margeret Bown, Jennifer Fisher, Laura Gaillard, and
Dionne Tarpenning.

Council Member Zander made a motion to approve Resolution R2020-14. Council Member
McGuire seconded the motion. The vote was unanimous in favor.

Mayor Ramsey recognized members of the Youth Council that were present, as well as Michelle
Hollace from the Planning Commission.

         H. Action Item: Resolution R2020-15, appropriation of funds for an irrigation water
            project from the water operating fund. (By Public Works Director, Jason Rasmussen)

Public Works Director Rasmussen reviewed a prepared presentation (Attachment F). He said the
project cost will be split 3 ways. He said this is a project that they were going to do in 2020-
2021, but it was moved up. It was noted that because they will not be pulling culinary water
during peak times, it will keep rates down. They are helping the city and every water customer.
This project is a collaboration with engineering and public works.

Council Member Shelton noted that this issue was talked about extensively in the study session.

Council Member Shelton made a motion to approve Resolution R2020-15. Council Member
Marlor seconded the motion. Roll call vote. The vote was unanimous in favor.
South Jordan City                                                                                     4
City Council Meeting
February 18, 2020




         I. Action Item: Resolution R2020-16, authorizing the Mayor to enter into an Interlocal
            Cooperation Agreement with Salt Lake County TRCC (Tourism, Recreation,
            Cultural, Convention) Funding for Midas Creek Trail Improvements. (By Strategic
            Services Director, Don Tingey)

Strategic Services Director Tingey reviewed the background information on this item. They
received this grant funding to do a pedestrian bridge and flood mitigation to the Midas Trail.

Council Member Marlor made a motion to approve Resolution R2020-16. Council Member
McGuire seconded the motion. The vote was unanimous in favor.

         J. Discussion Item: Background and Analysis of Subsection 16.04.160(D) of the South
            Jordan City Municipal Code regarding Flag or Panhandle Lots. (By Planner David
            Mann)

Planner Mann reviewed the background information on this issue. He showed a map of
applicants property (Attachment G). If they remove the requirement for it to be 2 times the
average lot size, but place the minimum frontage requirement at 125 ft. and keep the density
requirement, it would allow this lot to be developed and 17 other lots in the subdivision. There
are other city subdivisions that it would effect, estimating a total number of effected lots at 30-
40. Some lots are large enough but they are not allowed to subdivide because of the
neighborhood CC and Rs.

Council Member Shelton asked if there is any concern that the flag lots would overwhelm the
transportation, water, or sewer system? Mr. Mann said they have discussed adding a fee when
the property is subdivided to handle the impact of the extra lot into the subdivision. He said
impact fees are paid when the building permit application is pulled.

Mr. Klavano said they might need to run water and traffic models to determine the impact fee.

Mr. Schaefermeyer said in some subdivisions, the allowance of the flag lots would be on a first
come first serve basis. He said subsequent owners might not be able to do a flag lot, depending
on the infrastructure or density requirements. It was noted that this is a text amendment.
Notifications are not sent to specific subdivisions regarding this change. He said staff opposes
the change from an equity standpoint.

Council Member Shelton said adding flag lots back, without staff’s recommended restrictions,
would allow approximately 125 flag lots. He said adding those lots across the whole city is not a
big deal, but if it doubles the homes in one subdivision, it could be a big deal.

Mayor Ramsey said some people are concerned that the city is already running out of space and
the feel of the larger lots is being taken away. Some people won’t want a house in the back yard
with their horses. They bought on a quiet country road for a reason. They are concerned this
would finish off the large horse properties in the city. The city prides themselves with every type
South Jordan City                                                                                       5
City Council Meeting
February 18, 2020



of house available, but this would do away with the animal lots. That is the sentiment that has
been expressed to her.

Council Member McGuire concurred and said he has had similar concerns expressed to him. He
said it is about finding the appropriate balance for all of the different lots sizes and housing
types. He said people bought in this area for the large lots and to be surrounded by similar
properties.

Mayor Ramsey said the applicants are in a tough spot. She asked if there is anything they can do
to help them without opening up flag lots city wide?

Council Member Shelton said he feels staff’s proposal of the frontage requirement is reasonable.
He said if they get more pressure on this from applicants or the legislature, which will happen at
some point, it would be appropriate to have staff do some modeling to make sure the
infrastructure is not being overwhelmed in certain areas.

Mayor Ramsey said the issue is not being addressed at the legislature this year.

City Attorney Loose said if all eligible lots are subdivided, it could still double the density of the
subdivision. If they want to preserve the character of the neighborhood, they could look at guest
houses or Accessory Dwelling Units.

Council Member Zander said she feels the residents of Bonanza Acres would oppose this. She
said she wants to keep the integrity of the neighborhood. She would like to help this applicant,
but not open it up across the city. If they open it to everyone, they should notify them and let
them speak on the issue.

It was noted that the 30-40 lots that are potentially affected by this does not include the lots that
are restricted from subdividing with their CC and Rs. If the CC and R’s changed, it could affect
another 20-30 lots.

Mr. Schaefermeyer said this text amendment is an application from residents. Staff opposed it
based on the direction given 2 years ago. It is about the character of the city and the subdivisions.
In addition, flag lots take a disproportionate amount of staff time. There are concerns about
public safety finding the homes. He said there are infrastructure impact concerns. He said staff
also hears about concerns maintaining large lots and horse properties. He said neighborhoods get
concerned about guest houses and accessory garages.

Fire Chief Dawson said their issue is being able to find the address and accessing the home. They
will usually not drive the apparatus down the driveway. It increases their response time because
the equipment is on the main road and it would require extra long fire hoses.

Mayor Ramsey asked if fighting the fire from the main road would open up the city to extra
liability? City Attorney Loose said generally no because they can get their equipment to fight the
fire. ACM Lewis said there are liability claims saying that fire trucks have damaged driveways.
South Jordan City                                                                                     6
City Council Meeting
February 18, 2020




Council Member Harris said there are a lot of larger lots in District 1. One issue with larger lots
is that the older residents can no longer maintain the property. The water rates will continue to
rise and subdividing a property could help some residents be able to survive.

Council Member Marlor said they could justify the applicants request because they got caught in
the middle of the city’s policy change. He said he would like to know how many residents with
larger lots would like to subdivide. He would like a public discussion with those that would fit in
the 30-40 lot scenario.

It was noted that the public hearing for the text amendment was done last meeting.

City Attorney Loose said the applicants could push a decision in the next 45 days.

Mayor Ramsey asked if they have the authority to give a one time exception, and outline the
reasons? City Attorney Loose said they can’t spot zone for one house. They can do special
exceptions, case by case, with certain criteria. He said they have variances in the city with
specific legal criteria. The criteria for the flag lot would have to be specific.

City Attorney Loose said the special exception in this case is that there is enough evidence that
the applicant started following the city code, but the city changed the code and their vesting was
not complete. It is a unique special exception. Staff can look to see if they can make it work.

Mr. Schaefermeyer said there are others who did not get their application in on time. He said
staff was seeing a wave of flag lot applications, and some were controversial. That is why staff
got ahead of it.

City Attorney Loose said they would need to know who the applicants talked to and when and it
would have to be verified.

Council Member Shelton said maintaining the character of the subdivision or the city is where
they could receive public outcry. He said the right of the landowners is important to consider. He
said given the low number of potential flag lots with this proposal, it won’t change the character
of the city. But that will happen overtime.

Council Member Marlor said he believes in people’s property rights. He supports the idea of
limiting this to 30-40 lots. He believes one day there will be a predisposition from the legislature
to enforce. He said the landowner rights applies both ways.

Council Member Harris said he prefers to look at an exception for this lot rather than opening
flag lots up per city policy.

Council Member McGuire said he is only interested in the exception.
South Jordan City                                                                                  7
City Council Meeting
February 18, 2020



Council Member Zander said she is open to looking at the exception. She won’t necessarily vote
for it. If they proceed in any direction to open this up, she would like to have a lot of public
feedback. She said she is not in favor of opening up the option for more flag lots.

Council Member Marlor said he is okay with the exception, if they can enforce it. He does not
feel many individuals could claim that they fit into this exception. He is also okay getting
feedback from the residents on flag lots. He feels older residents may want to subdivide.

Council Member Harris said they should address the exception. Then, if they want to reopen it
on a bigger scale, they can address that at a later time. Council Member Marlor concurred.
Council Member Shelton said if they come up with a defensible exception, he is fine to proceed
with that. If they can’t come up with a defensible exception, he likes the staff’s recommendation.

City Attorney Loose said it would not be one exception, but rather one rule that could apply to
other properties. He said staff is not sure what they can do, but they will find out.

Council Member Harris asked if it is an exception, do they notify the residents? City Attorney
Loose said generally no, it is the same process as a variance.

Mr. Schaefermeyer noted that there are other lots in the city that aren’t in subdivisions that could
have flag lots.

Council Member McGuire made a motion to take a 5 minute break. Council Member
Zander seconded the motion. The vote was unanimous in favor.

         K. Staff Reports and Calendaring Items

The City Council continued the discussion regarding cell phone towers.

Council Member Zander asked if they change the pole height from 100 ft. to 125 ft., how would
that effect the cell phone coverage in the city?

Craig Chagnon, Crown Castle, said it would improve. He said the proposed text amendment
allows up to 100 ft. and they are happy with that. He said their concern was with other items that
were more prohibitive.

Mr. Schaefermeyer said if the city approved a 100 ft. pole, it could go to 120 ft. He said there are
setback requirements.

Council Member Zander said the residents are concerned about having better coverage. She is
not worried about landscaping as much. She is more focused on helping residents solve their
issue with cell phones.

City Attorney Loose said there was a proposal to put the towers in neighborhood parks, but that
became an issue. The residents don’t want to live next to it.
South Jordan City                                                                                    8
City Council Meeting
February 18, 2020




Council Member Marlor said he does not want the pole to go higher than 100 ft. He would like to
maximize coverage on the existing poles, and minimize the number of poles. He is against
having the poles in parks. He said he is okay with standoff mounts because it will help them
maximize coverage. He said he does not feel they need buildings for the equipment, but they
need walls to enclose the equipment.

Council Member Shelton asked if the standoff mount improves coverage? Mr. Chagnon said yes.
He said as the equipment gets heavier, the stand has to support it. It is more difficult with the
flush mount.

Council Member Shelton said he wants to improve coverage. He is good with co-location, and
standoff mounts are fine with him. He said if they require landscaping at a location, they need to
require water.

Mr. Schaefermeyer said staff put Crown Castle in contact with Daybreak to have a conversation
about a tower there.

Council Member Harris said he does not want a tower that isn’t maximizing its usefulness. He
does not want to put restrictions to the point that it restricts the coverage. He concurred that
landscaped areas should be nice and require water.

Council Member Harris asked if there is a reason the towers need to be over 100 ft.? Mr.
Chagnon said yes, for co-location, depending on the configuration of the pole. He said a 100 ft.
pole in Salt Lake County is a solid tower and that would enable 2-3 co-locations. Council
Member Harris recommended they structure this so it comes back for City Council approval if
the tower is over 100 ft.

Mr. Chagnon said the FCC rules are for existing towers, not new towers. City Attorney Loose
said they will write the Ordinance to allow 100 ft. towers. As technology changes, and if there is
a reason to address a different height they can.

Council Member Harris said he is not a fan of having the towers in the parks.

Council Member McGuire said regarding the enclosures, they should be masonry or precast
stone. It is up to the provider if the equipment demands a building. The enclosure or wall should
completely cover the equipment. He said with the landscaping, it should be done in harmony
with what is existing in the area. Some areas don’t need it. There needs to be some flexibility in
the code. He said he prefers the standoff mounts. Co-location is fine with him. He said at the
school sites, he would prefer a single pole, single location equipment.

Council Member Marlor said they can’t regulate what goes at the schools.

Council Member Zander asked if they can raise the pole at the RV storage location to increase
coverage for the west side of the city? There are no neighbors in that area so it would not be
South Jordan City                                                                                       9
City Council Meeting
February 18, 2020



bothersome. She is not in favor of putting a cap on the height because there are areas where a
higher pole could be helpful. Could they address the poles case by case? Mr. Schaefermeyer said
the monopole height is linked to the distance from a residential property line. He said they will
work through the issues with Crown Castle. Council Member Zander said there are other
locations to address higher poles.

Council Member Marlor said he is in favor of 100 ft. poles, unless approved otherwise.

Council Member Zander said sometimes getting the pole higher makes the view better. She does
not feel a higher pole would be a negative. Council Member Marlor said he would like to see a
standard with exceptions granted by the City Council. He said if there is no housing there, he is
okay with a higher pole.

Mayor Ramsey said there is consensus on the masonry or brick enclosure; it does not necessarily
have to be a building. Staff will work through the landscaping issues. There is consensus on the
standoff mounts. She said coverage is important.

Mayor Ramsey said she does not want to have exceptions go to the City Council. She would
rather they have a 100 ft. pole limit, with the limitation on the distance to a residential property
line. The only flexibility to change that height should be if there is a greater distance from a pole
to existing residential.

Council Member Marlor said the restrictions need to be narrow enough so it is not in
neighborhood parks. City Attorney Loose said if the city owns the park, they are under no
obligation to lease their property. He said they can take parks out.

The City Council indicated that they are okay to bring exceptions to the City Council. City
Attorney Loose said they will work through to see if that can be done legally.

They noted some areas of the city where there are coverage gaps. Mr. Chagnon said it is not just
the towers, it is also the angle of the antenna. Mayor Ramsey said they need to do what is
necessary to fix the coverage.


City Attorney Loose said Rocky Mountain Power may start legal action against some
homeowners that are avoiding them and not allowing entry to their properties to work. He said
the homeowners attorney is seeking an injunction to stop Rocky Mountain Power.

            Legislative Update. (By City Attorney, Ryan Loose)

City Attorney Loose said staff has been sending daily updates from the League and they’ve been
sending Friday facts.

City Attorney Loose said the two bills they need help with are 273 that has been sent to Business
and Labor. They also need help with HB261 that would limit eminent domain on a park trail. He
South Jordan City                                                                                   10
City Council Meeting
February 18, 2020



noted an issue with storm water; right now there is a fight between the State and developers. He
said the Legislature is looking at all taxes, and local taxes are being examined in that study. He
said body cameras is an issue that is coming up. Deputy Chief Knight and Police Chief Carr have
been helpful in that process. There is a bill regarding impact fees, but he does not think that will
go anywhere.

Mayor Ramsey said if the transportation bill goes well it is their only chance to get funding. It
was noted that the local legislators are more aligned with the city this year.

City Attorney Loose said there is a $3 billion shortfall to get Bangerter and Mountain View
where they want and that is why they want a $2.4 billion bond. Mayor Ramsey thanked West
Jordan City Council for pushing their 9000 South project for a year to allow the Bangerter
Interchanges to move forward.

Council Member McGuire said they need to watch for some last minute bundled bills that will
include taxes. City Attorney Loose said he understands the Legislature is addressing rebates, not
new taxes.

ACM Lewis said the heart of the next budget meeting will be CIP projects. He reminded the City
Council that many have openings on their boards and commissions that need to be filled.

ADJOURNMENT

Council Member Marlor made a motion to adjourn. Council Member Zander seconded the
motion. The vote was unanimous in favor.

The February 18, 2020 City Council meeting adjourned at 9:59 p.m.

This is a true and correct copy of the February 18, 2020 City Council Meeting Minutes,
which were approved on March 3, 2020.

South Jordan City Recorder
02-18-20 CC Meeting - Attachment B
         02-18-20 CC Meeting - Attachment F




R2020‐15 WATER IRRIGATION
    PROJECT FUNDING
       City Council Meeting Feb. 18, 2020
WATER IRRIGATION PROJECT
WATER IRRIGATION PROJECT

 Project Benefits:
  Utilizes existing water supply

  Addresses water supply issue for SL
   County Regional Park

  Adds two more City parks to irrigation
   water use
2-18-20 CC Mtg - Attachment G
