                                SOUTH JORDAN CITY
                         CITY COUNCIL ELECTRONIC MEETING

                                        August 4, 2020

Present:      Mayor Dawn Ramsey, Council Member Patrick Harris, Council Member Brad
              Marlor, Council Member Jason McGuire, Council Member Don Shelton, Council
              Member Tamara Zander, CM Gary Whatcott, ACM Dustin Lewis, City Attorney
              Ryan Loose, Public Works Director Jason Rasmussen, Engineering Director Brad
              Klavano, City Recorder Anna Crookston, City Commerce Director Brian Preece,
              Deputy Fire Chief Ryan Lessner, Strategic Services Director Don Tingey, Police
              Chief Jeff Carr, Administrative Services Director Spencer Kyle, Planning
              Director Steven Schaefermeyer, Planner David Mann, CFO Sunil Naidu,
              Communications Manager Rachel VanCleave, Associate Director of Parks Colby
              Hill, IT Director Jon Day, City Council Secretary MaryAnn Dean

Others:    Attendance electronically via Zoom

6:30 PM
REGULAR ELECTRONIC MEETING

       A. Welcome, Roll Call and Introduction: Mayor Dawn R. Ramsey

Mayor Ramsey welcomed everyone present. All members of the City Council were present. She
introduced the electronic meeting.

       B. Invocation: By CFO, Sunil Naidu

CFO Naidu offered the invocation.

       C. Pledge of Allegiance – By Commerce Director, Brian Preece

City Commerce Director Preece led the audience in the Pledge of Allegiance.

It was noted that Peterson Development pulled their item from tonight’s agenda. They will
reschedule at a later date.

       D. Minute Approval
          D.1. July 21, 2020 Council Study Meeting
          D.2. July 21, 2020 City Council Meeting

Council Member McGuire made a motion to approve the July 21, 2020 Council Study
meeting minutes, and the July 21, 2020 City Council meeting minutes. Council Member
Harris seconded the motion.
South Jordan City                                                                                 2
City Council Electronic Meeting
August 4, 2020

Council Member Marlor noted one change to the minutes.

The vote was unanimous in favor.

         E. Mayor and Council Reports

Council Member Zander reported on a group calling themselves We love South Jordan officers.
This group raised funds and brought food and expressed their love and support to the Police
Department. There is now a spin off group that wants to do something for the South Jordan Fire
Department.

Council Member Zander said she also met with several candidates for the upcoming election this
fall.

Mayor Ramsey said she knows the police officers appreciated the efforts of that group.

Council Member Marlor also expressed thanks to the Police and Fire Departments.

Council Member Marlor said he met with the Architectural Review Committee. There is a new
swim school coming east of The District.

Council Member McGuire and Council Member Harris had no reports.

Council Member Shelton reported on the Western Growth Coalition meeting.

Mayor Ramsey said she has had the chance to meet with various candidates in the last couple of
weeks. She said she appreciates the great collective efforts that saved the city from a tragedy
recently. She thanked staff, and the City Council. She thanked police and fire experts from
various communities, county, state, and federal officials. She thanked Chick fil A for donating
food to help keep people going. She said the response to the explosive situation handled on
Pioneer Day was handled expertly. She thanked residents and businesses. She thanked those for
the aide received and the aide offered. She said there will be no defunding of the police
department. There are things they are all working on to be better. They stand by and appreciate
all of the emergency personnel.

         F. Public Comment:

Marylynn Liddiard, former Council Member, said her grandson is interested in running for office
one day. She said she served on the Planning Commission and City Council. She knows the hard
work that goes into it. She said it is an educational and fun thing to do. She said she loves the
first responders.

         G. Presentation Item: Introduction of Ryan Roghaar, Salt Lake County Recreation
            Center Facility Manager. (By Associate Director of Parks, Colby Hill)
South Jordan City                                                                                     3
City Council Electronic Meeting
August 4, 2020

Associate Director of Parks Colby Hill, said the transfer of the fitness center to Salt Lake County
happened in April. He said Salt Lake County recruited the manager of the fitness center. Ryan
Roghaar, facility manager at the fitness and aquatic center, was introduced.

Mr. Roghaar indicated that he has worked for Salt Lake County for 10 years in the recreation
department. He said the center is opened for limited activities. They are limited to how many
patrons can be there at a time. He said they are averaging 30-40 people an hour starting at about
6 a.m. He said they have less patrons without open plunge or group fitness classes being opened.

Council Member Zander expressed her support for Mr. Roghaar.

Mayor Ramsey concurred and said this facility means a lot to the city.

CM Whatcott asked Mr. Roghaar to give a report to the City Council a couple of times a year,
during the transitional period. At that time, he can hear any concerns that the constituents have.

         H. Presentation Item: Property Watch (By Galina Urry, Salt Lake County Senior Policy
            Analyst

Rashelle Hobbs, Salt Lake County Recorder, reviewed a prepared presentation (Attachment A).

Council Member Zander thanked Ms. Hobbs and her team. She said their office has kept things
moving forward, and the County has recorded properties on time. She feels the property watch
program is terrific.

Those on the City Council that signed up for property watch said it was fast and easy.

         I. Public Hearing: Ordinance 2020-11, amending South Jordan City Municipal Code
            section 1.32.040 to allow notices for the disposal of significant parcels of property by
            the City to be placed on the Utah Public Notice website. (By Strategic Services
            Director, Don Tingey)

Strategic Services Director Tingey reviewed the background information on this item.

Mayor Ramsey opened the public hearing. There were no comments. She closed the public
hearing.

City Attorney Loose said if you subscribe to get notices from a certain entity, it will send you an
email telling you what is going on.

Council Member Harris made a motion to approve Ordinance 2020-11. Council Member
Marlor seconded the motion. Roll call vote. The vote was unanimous in favor.

         J. Staff Reports and Calendaring Items
South Jordan City                                                                                 4
City Council Electronic Meeting
August 4, 2020

CM Whatcott said the pickle ball courts are open in the main city park on Redwood Road and at
Highland Park. The courts are lit until 10 p.m. He said the farmers market is now open, through
the end of October.

Council Member Shelton expressed gratitude to the police, fire, and other staff for their handling
of the explosive event. He is grateful no one was injured in the process. He asked if there is a
policy for when and how they deploy the armored vehicle? Police Chief Carr said they have an
agreement with the federal government. He said they deploy that vehicle as a rescue vehicle or
for defense or protection of their public safety personnel. He said it was used in Salt Lake to
rescue people during the riots. It is used in the event of an active shooter. He said it is okay to
use it to protect people when a warrant is served. He said the agreement with the government
outlines how it will be used to some degree.

Council Member Shelton asked if the destination playground is part of Phase 1 of the Bingham
Creek park? Strategic Services Director Tingey said they don’t know yet. He said it is in the
design/build process. There will be playgrounds in Phase 1, but he does not know how much of
the destination playground will be built yet. He said he would ask the County.

Council Member Shelton asked about how the sales tax numbers compare with the budgeted
numbers? CFO Naidu said they are coming in above last year’s numbers. He said it was higher
than expected. They do not have June’s numbers yet. He reminded the Council that in the
budget, they are taking a couple years to adjust the loss of the Kennecott revenue. He said they
are above the budget in terms of revenue projections, but they have not adjusted the expenses up.

Mayor Ramsey recognized Tracy Miller from the Jordan School Board who was present at the
meeting.

ADJOURNMENT

Council Member Marlor made a motion to adjourn. Council Member McGuire seconded
the motion. The vote was unanimous in favor.

The August 4, 2020 City Council meeting adjourned at 7:41 p.m.

This is a true and correct copy of the August 4, 2020 City Council Meeting Minutes, which were
approved on August 18, 2020.


South Jordan City Recorder
Rashelle Hobbs
Salt Lake County Recorder
Mission Statement
• The mission of the Salt Lake County Recorder’s Office is to record and
  protect the public’s right to hold and own real property by maintaining
  comprehensive, accurate and searchable records of all property
  transactions, and ensuring a permanent chain of title. We strive to
  provide great customer service to the public and other County agencies.

• Utah Code Title 17, Chapter 21: The Recorder is the custodian of all
  documents required by law to be recorded. This is to ensure a consistent
  chain of title and to allow for the assignment of property tax.
Salt Lake County Recorder’s Office
                      Recorder’s Office Documents


                                    2019                    2020                      2020
                                Actual #Docs            Actual #Docs            % of Docs Increase
January                                        15,406                  23,532                        52.7%

February                                       14,342                  21,491                        49.8%

March                                          17,227                  25,569                        48.4%

April                                          19,609                  27,111                        38.3%

May                                            21,674                  26,148                        20.6%

June
                                               19,582                  30,097                   53.70%
January 1-June 30 Total                    2,396,532               5,623,958                         40.3%
2019 Initiatives

• External Collaboration
• County Recorders Across
  the State
• Industry Partners
• Public
               Total Property Watch Records • 7317 (690 Sandy)   Total Recorded Document Notifications Emailed • 2257




•   Powerful and useful service to help protect ownership.
•   Caters directly to the Salt Lake County property owners.
•   Opens up conversations and dialogs between the Recorder’s Office and the public that was not there before. Creates interest
    in their property record.
•   Property Watch also gives the public a better understanding about what the Salt Lake County Recorders Office does and how
    the Recorder’s Office protects their property records.
•   Property Watch also educates the public on Document Types and common terminology used for the recordation of
    document that may or may not affect their property.
•   Allows family to watch the status of elderly/vulnerable people for protection of their property.
•   Easier for the public to track new recordings on their property. For example, Title Companies are telling their customer about
    the service so they can be notified when their transaction is recorded in the Recorder’s Office.
•   When derogatory recordings such as a lien are recorded, Property Watch gives the public a quicker response time. In the
    past, they may have not even known a lien had been filed on their property.
For 2020 we will continue to
           focus on
“People - Process – Product”
               - Marcus Lemonis
