                                   SOUTH JORDAN CITY
                              CITY COUNCIL STUDY MEETING

                                        February 4, 2020

Present:       Mayor Dawn Ramsey, Council Member Patrick Harris, Council Member Brad
               Marlor, Council Member Jason McGuire, Council Member Don Shelton, Council
               Member Tamara Zander, CM Gary Whatcott, City Prosecutor Ed Montgomery,
               ACM Dustin Lewis, Strategic Services Director Don Tingey

   A. Invocation:     By Engineering Director, Brad Klavano

Engineering Director Brad Klavano offered the invocation.

   B. Mayor and Council Coordination

Council Member McGuire said he attended the LPC meeting. He said they need to make sure
they are aware of what is going on during the legislative session. There are rumors going on right
now trying to limit what the cities can do, including stopping design standards. There are rumors
about changes to impact fees; developers are saying that is what is preventing affordable
housing. There is also a proposal to penalize local officials if they vote against a land use issue
that is legally appropriate. There are issues with code enforcement and unfunded mandates with
water bills.

It was noted that the code enforcement issue will be on a future work session agenda. Mayor
Ramsey said they will be discussing what is criminal and what it not and what the process is.

Council Member McGuire said they need to watch for bills regarding body cameras, and
mandates that cities cover for each other for EMS services. CM Whatcott said that mandate
would not hurt the city. They already cover for each other through the mutual aid agreement.

Council Member McGuire said there are rumors about a bill that would require street
connectivity. There is also a bill to address some fringe gambling.

Mayor Ramsey said there are issues being watched. The city has not been asked to weigh in and
give a position at this time.

Council Member Harris said the personal liability issue concerns him. He can foresee them being
threatened if they don’t vote for an issue. Council Member Zander said it could affect people’s
desire to run for office. Council Member Harris asked how would they be insured for that
liability? Council Member McGuire said it is a lot of rumors right now.

Mayor Ramsey said she read City Attorney Loose’s summary of Saturdays meeting. Council
Member Shelton said Kim Coleman questioned the definition of family in the study done by the
Kem Gardner Institute. In Representative Coleman’s case, with her family, a missionary, a
South Jordan City                                                                                   2
City Council Study Meeting
February 4, 2020



college student, and her father in law living with her, that counts as 4 families. He said
Representative Coleman does not feel the argument is as dramatic as it is being portrayed.

Council Member Shelton said West Jordan passed a Resolution to support the Western Growth
Coalition Resolution, but they also added U-111 as a priority. He said that is not on the Wasatch
Front Regional Council Phase 1 list. He said many other cities are working on passing that
Resolution as well.

It was noted that Senator McKay is running a bill to make all abortions illegal, except in specific
cases.

Council Member Zander asked what is the city policy on the Mayor and Council speaking out on
issues and giving personal opinions? Council Member Shelton said in the past, there were City
Council giving personal opinions and saying they are speaking on behalf of the City Council. If
they have a personal opinion that is different than the City Council position, they have to be very
clear that it is a personal position, not the City Council position.

Council Member Marlor said they cannot use city lobbyists for their personal positions.

Council Member Harris said if they are sending an email on a personal position, they should use
a personal email, not the work account. Attorney Sheeran said if they are using their personal
email for business, that can be accessed with GRAMA.

Council Member Harris said he received a call from a resident who is requesting a flashing speed
limit sign on 10900 South 1300 West, due to speeding traffic.

CM Whatcott said in article 13 in the City’s Code of Ethics, there is a paragraph about the City
Council communicating their personal opinions. Staff will email that to the City Council for their
review.

    C. Discussion/Review of Regular Council Meeting

Mayor Ramsey said there might be a lot of people coming to speak on the County issue. She said
there is a lack of accurate information. The goal is to clarify information before the public
comments.

Council Member Zander said she feels there is concern from the older residents that use the rec
center regularly and are running with hearsay. They love the rec center and are concerned.

Council Member Marlor said he feels if staff shows the chart with their clarifying information
that will be helpful. Council Member McGuire said they should also point out that Marv Jensen
is closing regardless.

The City Council reviewed the rest of the agenda items.
South Jordan City                                                                                        3
City Council Study Meeting
February 4, 2020



Council Member McGuire said he sent an email amending the minutes.

    D. Discussion Item: UTA Point of the Mountain Transportation Study. (By UTA Rep.)

Patti Garver, UTA project manager for the point of the mountain transportation study, reviewed a
prepared presentation on this item (Attachment A).

CM Whatcott said there is no extension of the red line concept for level 1. Ms. Garver said the
red line is a different project.

Council Member Zander expressed concern that they are pulling people from the east to the west,
but they are not pulling people from the west to this site. Ms. Garver said to justify the project,
you have to have the ridership to get the funding. She said they are trying to connect to
population centers. She said the more you grow, the more you can justify the connections.

Mayor Ramsey said if the red line is not considered, they are missing a significant piece. She
understands that it is not part of the scope of this project. She said the needs are real and it needs
to be considered. She said they won’t increase ridership if there is nothing for them to ride. She
said most of the people that will work at the point of the mountain will live here.

Ms. Garver said if they want federal funding, they have to meet certain criteria. Mayor Ramsey
said she talked with Secretary Chow about the issue. She said not even having the red line
considered is missing half of the answer.

It was noted that the red line was included in some funding modeling. It is a separate project, but
goes hand in hand with this project. CM Whatcott said he understands that there might be some
modifications to the red line coming.

Council Member Shelton asked what is the ridership on the blue line versus the red line. Ms.
Garver did not know, but said all lines are loaded during peak hours.

Mayor Ramsey expressed concern if they ran the light rail down the west side, would it take out
Walmart, Sam’s Club, and the dealerships? Ms. Garver said that area is tricky because of the
power corridor. She said the next open house is scheduled for April.

Council Member Zander recommended that they advertise that open house on their social media
channels.

    E. Discussion Item: SoJo Marathon Analysis. (By Admin Director, Spencer Kyle)

Administrative Services Director Kyle said they tracked some information with the last
marathon. He introduced Janelle Payne, Associate Director of Recreation, and Katie Olsen,
Assistant to the City Manager. They reviewed a prepared presentation (Attachment B). Mr. Kyle
said the marathon is all consuming for staff. The race series serves more residents and is more
manageable.
South Jordan City                                                                                    4
City Council Study Meeting
February 4, 2020




Council Member Zander said he likes that the race series goes through different parts of the city.
Ms. Payne said they can’t do that with the marathon. It was noted that the race series numbers
dropped this year because of weather and advertising early in the year. One complaint is that the
patrons don’t like the course layout for the marathon. Marathon numbers, including the St.
George marathon, are declining.

Mayor Ramsey recommended that they change the date of the couples race, as it may create
some opportunities to use the race for people that stream the race on their at home equipment.

Mr. Kyle said the plan is to use some of the money not spent on the marathon and improve the
race series. He said the marathon is a big resource draw. The subsidy is worse than shown, when
they add in all soft costs including police overtime.

Ms. Olsen said there has been some discussion about doing a Mayor’s walk. She said the South
Jordan race series is unique.

Mr. Kyle said if they focus on the race series, they can grow it instead of spending staff time on
the marathon.

Council Member McGuire said one problem with the marathon is that there are more scenic
races that they are in competition with.

The City Council concurred to get rid of the marathon and invest in the race series. Council
Member Zander recommended they improve their marketing for the race series.

ADJOURNMENT

Council Member McGuire made a motion to adjourn. Council Member Zander seconded
the motion. The vote was unanimous in favor.

The February 4, 2020 City Council study session adjourned at 6:20 p.m.

This is a true and correct copy of the February 4, 2020 City Council Study Meeting
Minutes, which were approved on February 18, 2020.

South Jordan City Recorder
              2-4-20 CC Study Meeting - Attachment A




    Patti Garver
Utah Transit Authority


                                                       1
                              Current Transit
                               • LRT, commuter rail,
                                  bus
                              Previous Planning Eﬀorts
                               • Draper LRT,
    Study                         Sandy SoJo Circulator,
    Background                    SW SLCo Transit,
                                  PoM Visioning
                 Bluffdale




                              Key Des na ons
                               • Silicon Slopes,
                                  Prison Site, other


2
                    The Preferred Alternative will identify the:
                    Transit corridor (locations to be served)
                    Transit mode (type of transit technology)
    Point of the
    Mountain
    Transit Study
    Overview




3
    Factors to
    Consider




4
                                                                          Refine the
                                                                                          Select a
                                                                             Best
    Project     Describe
               Setting and
                             Set Project
                               Goals
                                             Develop
                                               Draft
                                                            Evaluate     Performing
                                                                         Alternatives
                                                                                          Locally
                                                                                         Preferred
                                                          Alternatives
    Activity    Problem
                Aug‐Oct
                              Sep‐Nov
                               2019
                                           Alternatives
                                             Oct‐Dec
                                                            Jan‐Mar       April‐June
                                                                            2020
                                                                                        Alternative
                                                                                         July 2020

    Updates      2019                         2019
                                                              2020

                                                                                        (Unfunded)
                                                                         (Unfunded)




5
                 Technical Advisory Committee Meetings
                   • August 29, 2019
                   • October 15, 2019
    Committee      • October 22, 2019
                   • December 5, 2019
    Meetings
                   • January 21, 2020
    and Public
                 Steering Committee Meetings
    Open           • Kickoff Workshop September 16, 2019
    Houses         • High Level Meeting November 13, 2019
                   • December 16, 2019
                 Public Open House
                   • November 14, 2019


6
                 Jurisdiction One‐on‐One Meetings to Review
                  Employment and Population Projections
                   • Bluffdale

    One‐on‐One     • Draper
                   • Lehi
    Meetings
                   • Sandy
    and Public
                   • South Jordan
    Surveys
                 Public Opinion Survey Work
                   • Meeting with stakeholders in late January to include their
                     input for surveys. Beginning public surveys in February.



7
              Provide faster, more frequent, and reliable transit service
              to:
               Improve access and mobility between southern Salt Lake County and
                northern Utah County
               Connect to the regional transit system
    Project    Support the long‐range transportation demands in southern Salt Lake
    Purpose     County and northern Utah County
               Support land use and economic development goals in the Point of the
                Mountain communities and region
              4
                  In addition, stakeholders want a transit project that:
                   Is affordable
                   Leverages existing and planned facilities and
                     services
                   Protects the environment, including air quality, and
                     quality of life
8
                   The need for the project includes the following:
                    Roadway congestion is increasing on Interstate 15
                    Regional transit service lacks connections
                    Long‐term population and employment growth
                    Increased residential and commercial development and
                     employment centers
    Project Need    Environmental and quality of life goals




9
                   Presented draft Level 1
                                                   Pre‐screening: Broad range of alternatives
                    screening measures to
                    Technical Advisory
                    Committee in October
                    2019
     Alternative                                              Level 1 Evaluation:

                   Refined and streamlined
                                                                 Conceptual

     Screening      Level 1 screening to
     Methods        provide most useful data
                                                                    Level 2
                    to paint the initial picture                  Evaluation:
                                                                   Detailed
                    of each alternative
                   Additional detailed
                    evaluation will occur in
                    Level 2 screening
10
                    Developed concepts based on:
                    Previous planning efforts
     Concepts for   TAC workshop and feedback
     Level 1        Input from:
     Screening        • November 14th Public Meeting
                      • December 5th Technical Advisory Committee Meeting
                      • December 9th Steering Committee Meeting



11
                    Concepts for Level 1
                    Western Alignment – Light Rail Transit
     Concepts for
                    Eastern Alignment – Light Rail Transit
     Level 1
     Evaluation     Western Alignment – Bus Rapid Transit
                    Eastern Alignment – Bus Rapid Transit
                    East‐West Bus Connections – Leverage FrontRunner




12
                    These concepts are:
                    Representative alignments/station areas – to define
                     scope of work (general alignment and station areas) and
                     use for consistent measurement of Level 1 criteria
     Concepts for   Going to evolve – concepts will evolve through this
                     project, and through future phases of project
     Level 1         development. Concepts will be refined further based on
     Evaluation      findings from Level 1.

                    These concepts are not:
                    Final determinations of engineering, impacts, or station
                     locations

13
     Concepts for
     Level 1
     Evaluation




14
     Concepts for
     Level 1
     Evaluation

     Western LRT




15
     Concepts for
     Level 1
     Evaluation

     Western BRT




16
     Concepts for
     Level 1
     Evaluation

     Eastern LRT




17
     Concepts for
     Level 1
     Evaluation

     Eastern BRT




18
     Concepts for
     Level 1
     Evaluation

     East/West
     Bus
     Connections



19
                  Finalize Level 1 Evaluations and Identify Alternatives
                   Meeting Criteria
                  Public Surveys and Open House #2
     Next Steps   Complete More Detailed Design and Conduct Level 2
                   Evaluations for Alternatives Moved on From Level 1
                  Identify Locally Preferred Alternative
                  Determine Potential for Funding
                  Begin Environmental Document, if Appropriate



20
                                        Thank You

                  Patti Garver, UTA Point of the Mountain Project Manager
     Questions?                    pgarver@rideuta.com
                                       801‐898‐5856




21
                  Transit Speed
                  Transit Reliability
                  Ridership Potential
                  Multimodal Access and Connections
                  Transit Connections
     Level 1      Community Compatibility
     Evaluation   Mixture and Density of Land Uses
     Criteria     Walkable Design
                  TOD Opportunities and Economic Development
                  Cost Considerations
                  Constructability and Operational Considerations
                  Effects on the Environment, Air Quality & Built Environment
                  Support Equity
22
2-4-20 CC Study Mtg - Attachment B
