                                 SOUTH JORDAN CITY
                          CITY COUNCIL ELECTRONIC MEETING

                                          January 7, 2020

Present:       Mayor Pro Tempore Brad Marlor, Council Member Patrick Harris, Council
               Member Jason McGuire, Council Member Don Shelton, CM Gary Whatcott,
               Police Chief Jeff Carr, Administrative Services Director Spencer Kyle, City
               Commerce Director Brian Preece, Finance Director Sunil Naidu, Strategic
               Services Director Don Tingey, ACM Dustin Lewis, City Attorney Ryan Loose,
               Fire Chief Chris Dawson, Planning Director Steven Schaefermeyer, Engineering
               Director Brad Klavano, Public Works Director Jason Rasmussen, IT Director Jon
               Day, City Council Secretary MaryAnn Dean

Others:        See Attachment A

REGULAR MEETING

       A. Welcome and Roll Call – Mayor Pro Tempore

Mayor Pro Tempore Marlor welcomed everyone present. He excused Mayor Ramsey and
Council Member Zander who are not present this evening.

Mayor Pro Tempore Marlor read the following statement from Mayor Ramsey: “Thank you to
each of you for participating in our January 7, 2020 Council Meeting for the City of South
Jordan. I am heartbroken to not be joining you tonight, but recovering from an unanticipated
surgery has left me unable to be there. I want to wish heartfelt congratulations to our council
members who were re-elected, and express my gratitude to all of our council and staff for their
dedicated service to the residents of our city. May a spirit of civility and cooperation fill this
chamber as each person here cares about the future of our great city, and may we continue
working together to bring about great things in 2020. I will see you at our next meeting. Thank
you all, and have a wonderful evening. -Mayor Dawn Ramsey”.

       B. Newly Elected Officials Oaths of Office

Anna West, City Recorder, administered the Oaths of Office to Council Member Harris and
Council Member Marlor. It was noted that Council Member Zander was also recently re-elected.
Her Oath of Office will be held at a later date.

       C. Invocation – By Council Member, Brad Marlor

Mayor Pro Tempore Marlor offered the invocation.

       D. Pledge of Allegiance
South Jordan City                                                                                 2
City Council Meeting
January 7, 2020

Racer Phillips, Scout Troop 61, led the audience in the Pledge of Allegiance.

Scout Troop 61 was recognized.

Council Member Harris made a motion to amend the agenda to add a closed session at the
end of the meeting to discuss the purchase, exchange, or lease of real property. Council
Member McGuire seconded the motion. The vote was 4-0 in favor.

         E. Minute Approval

             E.1.      December 3, 2019 Council Study Meeting
             E.2.      December 3, 2019 City Council Meeting

Council Member Shelton made a motion to approve the December 3, 2019 Council study
meeting minutes and the December 3, 2019 City Council meeting minutes, as printed.
Council Member Harris seconded the motion. The vote was 4-0 in favor.

         F. Public Comment

Jess Shackelford, asked when the South Jordan residents may be able to use Oquirrh Lake
without any restrictions? It is currently controlled by Daybreak. Mayor Pro Tempore Marlor
indicated that a staff member would contact Mr. Shackelford to address his question.

Mayor Pro Tempore Marlor recognized Representative Susan Pulsipher.

         G. Mayor and Council Reports

Council Member Shelton reported on the Light the Night Christmas celebration. He said he met
with a candidate running for the House of Representatives, representing District 42. He attended
Daybreak Communities holiday social. Daybreak contributed $15,000 to the city for
improvements to Mystic Springs Learning Center. He said he met with CFO Naidu and reviewed
a lot of information from the city budget. He attended the ULCT legislative policy committee
meeting. They discussed tax reform legislation. He also met with the Western Growth Coalition.
They passed a Resolution seeking transportation funding for projects that have been identified by
the transportation planning group in Utah as being needed as a priority. There is currently no
funding. The City Council will consider a Resolution regarding that issue later in the meeting.
He congratulated Council Member Harris, Council Member Marlor, and Council Member
Zander on their recent re-elections.

Council Member Harris said he attended many events outlined by Council Member Shelton. He
also met with a resident regarding his Planning Commission appointment. He thanked his family
in attendance for their support.

Council Member McGuire indicated that he also attended the Light the Night event, and the
Daybreak Communities event. He attended a breakfast at TransJordan landfill and received an
update on the future plans of the landfill. He also attended an Arts Council meeting where they
South Jordan City                                                                                    3
City Council Meeting
January 7, 2020

had a social, and they discussed a presentation that will be coming at the next City Council
meeting, seeking approval for upcoming projects.

Mayor Pro Tempore Marlor indicated that he could not attend the Light the Night event due to a
family conflict. He attended the Daybreak holiday get together. He said he wrote a
congratulatory letter for an Eagle Scout in South Jordan. He encouraged those interested to
continue in scouting and receive their Eagle Scout award. He said he nominated a member of the
Planning Commission. His nominee, Michelle Hollist, will continue serving in that position.
They have a great Planning Commission and provide a great service to the city. He thanked
public works for their care of the streets and snow removal this time of year.

         H. Presentation Item: Crime Statistics – Victim Advocate Report (Police Chief Carr)

Police Chief Carr said they receive a state grant. Those funds are used to pay for the part time
victim advocates and half of the full time victim advocate, as well as their training. Part of the
grant requirement is to update the City Council on their crime statistics twice a year. He
reviewed those statistics. He said the city has doubled the number of strangulation domestic
violence cases in the last year. That is a concerning trend. It could be that the officers are doing a
better job at identifying the crime.

Council Member Shelton indicated that there was an incident in his neighborhood last year. The
victim advocate was professional and helped the family understand what was happening.

Police Chief Carr indicated that there are 3 individuals on call as victim advocates at all times.

         I. Consent Items:

             I.1. Resolution R2020-03, recognizing January 16, 2020 as Religious Freedom Day.
                  (By ACM, Dustin Lewis)

ACM Lewis reviewed the background information on this item.

             I.2. Resolution R2020-04, appointment of Tamara Zander to the South Salt Lake
                  Valley Mosquito Abatement District Board of Trustees for a four (4) year term.
                  (By City Attorney, Ryan Loose)

Mayor Pro Tempore Marlor reviewed the background on this item.

             I.3. Resolution R2020-09, supporting the Western Growth Coalition 2020 Legislative
                  Priorities. (By Assoc. Director Intragovernmental Affairs, Melinda Nagai Seager)

Council Member Shelton said he attended the Western Growth Coalition meeting in early
December. After months of study, and meeting with the Wasatch Front Regional Council, it is
clear that the growth is outstripping the transportation that they have available on the west and
southwest portion of the Salt Lake Valley. He said the Wasatch Front Regional Council
identified a large number of projects as being phase 1 projects (projects that should be done in
South Jordan City                                                                                 4
City Council Meeting
January 7, 2020

the next 5 years). A large number of projects were identified with no funding. The Western
Growth Coalition passed a Resolution asking the Legislature to prioritize projects that have been
identified. They will use that to lobby the Legislature for funding. They are seeking support of
the cities represented by the Western Growth Coalition.

             I.4. Resolution R2020-07, appointing Planning Commissioners to the South Jordan
                  Planning Commission. (By Planning Director, Steven Schaefermeyer)

Planning Director Schaefermeyer reviewed the background information on this item.

Council Member Shelton expressed gratitude for the outgoing Planning Commission members.
Because of the Ordinance, some are no longer eligible to serve any longer. He said he feels the
Ordinance change is appropriate. He introduced his nominee, Trevor Darby.

Council Member Harris also thanked the outgoing Planning Commission. The current
Commission has served tremendously. He recognized Nathan Gedge, his nominee.

Council Member McGuire said his nominee is staying and continuing to serve on the Planning
Commission. He is grateful to those willing to serve, past and present.

Mr. Schaefermeyer recognized Council Member Zander’s nominee Steve Catmulll.

Mayor Pro Tempore Marlor said his nominee, Michelle Hollist is also staying and continuing her
service on the Planning Commission. He said a lot of work has been done on the General Plan
the last year. He expressed appreciation for those that have served.

Council Member Shelton made a motion to approve the Consent Items I.1., I.2., I.3., and
I.4., as described. Council Member Harris seconded the motion. The vote was 4-0 in favor.

         J. Action Item: Resolution R2020-05, providing Notice of a Pending Land Use
            Regulation to amend the zoning of a property located at 1231 West South Jordan
            Parkway. (By Assistant City Attorney, Todd Sheeran)

Attorney Todd Sheeran reviewed the background information on this item. He said Bentley
Motors needs some assurance that the City Council would be favorable to their application
before they proceed further.

City Attorney Loose said at the Planning Commission meeting, there will be a public hearing.

Tom Buckley, said the plan is to occupy the building that is currently the Gun Vault. There
would be a place for retail and service of Bentley automobiles. They will remodel the facility and
remediate any lead particles in the building. He said this would be a temporary location. To build
a permanent dealership will take 1 ½ - 2 years. He noted that there is less traffic daily for their
use and an increase in gross revenue from sales tax to the city.
South Jordan City                                                                                        5
City Council Meeting
January 7, 2020

Council Member Shelton said if they use the PD floating zone, when the permanent Bentley
dealership is built, this property will revert back to the C-C zone. A different car dealership
won’t take Bentley’s place.

Council Member Harris asked what kind of changes are they making to the current building? Mr.
Buckley said it is a boutique luxury brand. They will spend $800,000-$1,000,000 to improve the
building with high end materials. They will spend $100,000-$150,000 to remove the lead in the
building. He said with the lead remediation, and the facelift, the building will be more valuable.
Renderings were provided at the study session (Attachment B).

Council Member McGuire made a motion to approve Resolution R2020-05, as stated.
Council Member Shelton seconded the motion.

Council Member Harris said with the lead issue being addressed, and the building upgraded, he
feels it will be better for its future long term use. It will also increase their sales tax. He feels this
will be a good thing for the city.

Mayor Pro Tempore Marlor said this is a temporary location, but the dealership is planning on
locating permanently in the city. This will enhance their future sales tax.

Council Member McGuire said he likes the fact that the zone will revert back to its original
zoning, with a nicer building, and the lead remediation taken care of.

Mayor Pro Tempore Marlor said the future use will likely be office/warehouse.

The vote was 4-0 in favor.

         K. Action Item: Resolution R2020-06, accepting the Oak Hills Subdivision private
            storm drain system as Public with certain conditions and authorizing the City
            Engineer to complete the process. (By City Engineer, Brad Klavano)

City Engineer Klavano reviewed the background information on this item (Attachment C). He
said staff is recommending approval, with conditions.

Mayor Pro Tempore Marlor asked if the subdivision is covering the cost to convert this to
public? Mr. Klavano said yes.

Council Member Harris said he lives in the community. He is the President of the Board. He said
he was not the board member who brought this to the attention of the city.

City Attorney Loose said elected officials have a duty to disclose the conflict, but that does not
mean they have to recuse themselves from the vote. In this case, there is not a financial conflict.
It would not be required to be listed on the annual conflict of interest form. With this disclosure,
Council Member Harris can vote on this item and participate in the discussion.
South Jordan City                                                                                 6
City Council Meeting
January 7, 2020

Council Member Shelton made a motion to approve Resolution R2020-06. Mayor Pro
Tempore Marlor seconded the motion. The vote was 3-0 in favor, with Council Member
Harris abstaining from the vote.

         L. Public Hearing: Presentation of the “DRAFT” General Plan to City Council. No
            Action. (By Planning Director, Steven Schaefermeyer)

Mr. Schaefermeyer reviewed the background information on this item.

Jennifer Gardner, Logan Simpson, reviewed a prepared presentation on this item (Attachment
D).

Mayor Pro Tempore Marlor opened the public hearing. There were no comments. He closed the
public hearing.

Mr. Schaefermeyer said any concerns can be forwarded to the consultant; they work to resolve
the concerns.

Mayor Pro Tempore Marlor said they have tried hard to give the residents a forum to provide
comments on the General Plan.

The City Council reviewed the future land use map. They discussed infill areas, areas where
there was interest for economic development. Ms. Gardner said there are smaller individual plans
for Redwood Road and RiverPark. They talked about mixed use and TOD areas. They also
discussed industrial areas and commercial areas in Daybreak. They reviewed the “orange” area
which is planned to be mixed use, office, residential, and light industrial.

Council Member McGuire asked about the future University of Utah land. He recommended
they identify that as a public use.

Council Member McGuire said they should identify the 3rd light rail stop that has been proposed.
Mr. Schaefermeyer said they will also be editing some language in that paragraph. Council
Member McGuire noted a wording change that was needed.

Council Member McGuire said they should show the full trail connection along Lake Avenue.

Council Member McGuire said they need some clarification on the Wheadon family property.
Some maps show that area as potential development, some as agricultural preservation. Another
map shows it as redevelopment.

Council Member McGuire said there are corrections needed regarding the year for the JVWCD
water supply. He asked if they need to add in some specific goals regarding water conservation?
Public Works Director Rasmussen said they will reference the water conservation plan.

Council Member McGuire expressed appreciation to the consultants for their efforts.
South Jordan City                                                                                7
City Council Meeting
January 7, 2020

         M. Public Hearing: Ordinance 2020-01, amending City Code Section 17.16.010
            (Planning Commission) regarding the resident requirements of the South Jordan
            Planning Commission. (By Assistant City Attorney, Todd Sheeran)

Assistant City Attorney Sheeran reviewed the background information on this item.

City Attorney Loose said he was uncomfortable with the proposed language that a City Council
member alone could remove a Planning Commission member which they nominated. Mr.
Sheeran said some members of the Planning Commission were uncomfortable putting any
restrictions on Planning Commissioners, in terms of where they live. They were concerned that
to get the most qualified individuals, it should not necessarily be based on where they live.

Council Member Harris asked if someone moves outside of the city boundaries, are they
immediately ineligible to be on the Planning Commission? Mr. Sheeran said yes.

Mayor Pro Tempore Marlor opened the public hearing.

Nick Florin, 10331 Springcrest Lane, said it was recommended that for members to serve on the
Senior Advisory Committee, they should be a resident for 10 years. In this case, he feels the
Planning Commissioners should be a resident for more than 1 year. He feels it should be at least
2 years.

Mayor Pro Tempore Marlor closed the public hearing.

Council Member Shelton made a motion to approve Ordinance 2020-01, version A. Council
Member McGuire seconded the motion.

City Attorney Loose said the 1 year requirement mirrors the City Council residency requirement.
He said he has been asked to bring back a change that they live 1 year within their election
district.

Council Member Harris asked if a member of the City Council moved outside of their District,
could they fulfill the remainder of their term? City Attorney Loose said no. He said the exception
is if they are building a house and are living somewhere temporarily. He said if they establish a
new principal place outside of the District area, they would lose their seat. Council Member
Harris said this policy is consistent with how the City Council works. He said they had 3
Planning Commissioners move outside their District. That is one reason this issue came forward.
There is value in having a Planning Commissioner live in the District that they are representing.

Council Member Shelton concurred. He said there are more than enough highly qualified
residents that could serve on the Planning Commission.

Council Member Harris concurred. He said they showed some generosity and sympathy to the
Planning Commissioners that had moved and did not move anyone off the Planning Commission
mid term. They are now starting a new term. The previous Planning Commission did a fantastic
job. He feels it is appropriate to make this change at this time.
South Jordan City                                                                                   8
City Council Meeting
January 7, 2020



Mayor Pro Tempore Marlor expressed support for the motion. He said he initiated districting on
the City Council. This aligns the Planning Commission with the City Council, and allows
representation from a cross section of the city.

Roll call vote. The vote was 4-0 in favor.

         N. Public Hearing: Ordinance 2020-02, amending Chapter 5 of the South Jordan
            Municipal Code regarding Business License Transferability and Alcohol Beverage
            Licenses. (By City Attorney, Ryan Loose)

City Attorney Loose reviewed the background information on this item.

Mayor Pro Tempore Marlor opened the public hearing. There were no comments. He closed the
public hearing.

Council Member McGuire made a motion to approve Ordinance 2020-02. Council Member
Shelton seconded the motion.

City Attorney Loose said the transfer of license would happen if someone buys the business in
that location. The current or future owner could not move the business to another location and
keep the license.

Council Member Harris asked what if it is a new type of business? City Attorney Loose said they
can change the environment or the menu, just like the current owner could. They would still have
to abide by state and local regulations for the bar license.

Council Member Harris said the current owners could market the business for sale with a bar
license. Mayor Pro Tempore Marlor said that is an asset of the business. If someone bought the
assets of the business, including the bar license, they can change it to another name because they
bought the asset.

City Attorney Loose said whatever rights the current owner has, the new owner would have as
well.

Council Member Harris asked in what situation would the bar license not be able to be
transferred? City Attorney Loose said if the business just closed and was not sold.

Council Member Harris said the bar license is a significant intangible asset and could be heavily
marketed.

City Attorney Loose said this came about because it was requested by the successors of the
Market Street Grill when the owner passed away. The City Council allowed the license to be
transferred so they are making the code match the action that the City Council took.
South Jordan City                                                                                  9
City Council Meeting
January 7, 2020

City Attorney Loose said the bar license is an asset when the business is sold. The concerns are
valid. He reviewed the history of how the 2 bar licenses came about in the city. He said the
environment of the business is limited by state and city regulations.

Council Member Harris asked if they can word this so it addresses concerns if they decide to
relocate or sell the business so it is not an automatic intangible asset? City Attorney Loose said
the city has done the most regulation it can. They can’t discriminate on the basis of who might
buy the business in the future. They can identify issues that make the business problematic. They
can address those issues through fees, hours of operation, etc.

Council Member Shelton said they have 2 bar licenses in the city. No matter how many times the
business changes hands, they can still only have 2 bar licenses and it has to be in their current
location.

City Attorney Loose said they are working to address any concerns that could arise.

Council Member Harris said he thinks they should let Council Member Zander give her input on
this issue. City Attorney Loose said Council Member Zander feels there are problems at one of
the locations with the bar license. They are working to address those concerns, but it has nothing
to do with the transferability of the license. That is a separate issue. Council Member Harris said
he would like to delay the decision for Council Member Zander to weigh in.

CM Whatcott said decisions were made by Market Street Grill after they were given direction by
the City Council. He said they should invite the owners of Market Street Grill to the discussion
and let them know that the decision could be rescinded. Council Member Harris said he does not
want to rescind the decision regarding Market Street Grill.

City Attorney Loose said one issue is the transferability of the license. The other issue is
potential problems that new owners could bring if they bought the business. There are a lot of
ways to regulate the issue of potential problems including hours of operation, where dumpsters
can be located, signage, etc. He said that is a land use issue, not a licensing issue.

Mayor Pro Tempore Marlor said when the state did away with the club license, there was a
representation made that the current club licenses would have a bar license. The difference with a
bar license is that you can buy a drink alone, rather than with food.

Council Member Harris said he feels Market Street Grill does it the right way. He said they can
visit the rules that would address potential problems of future businesses at another time.

Roll call vote. The vote was 4-0 in favor.

         O. Staff Reports and Calendaring Items

CM Whatcott said a budget meeting is scheduled for January 29, 2020.
South Jordan City                                                                                     10
City Council Meeting
January 7, 2020

City Attorney Loose said the Legislative Session starts at the end of the month. They will bring
an update to a future City Council meeting. There are large issues being addressed such as
transportation, land use, and density, but no specific bills are of concern currently. They will be
working with Representative Pulsipher on a centennial farm bill.

Council Member McGuire made a motion to take a break. Mayor Pro Tempore Marlor
seconded the motion. The vote was 4-0 in favor.

Council Member McGuire made a motion to go into a closed executive session to discuss
the purchase, exchange, or lease of real property. Council Member Shelton seconded the
motion. The vote was 4-0 in favor.

         P. Closed Executive Session to discuss the purchase, exchange, or lease of real property

Council Member Shelton made a motion to come out of closed meeting. Council Member
McGuire seconded the motion. The vote was 4-0 in favor.

ADJOURNMENT

Council Member McGuire made a motion to adjourn. Council Member Shelton seconded
the motion. The vote was 4-0 in favor.

The January 7, 2020 City Council meeting adjourned at 10:20 p.m.

This is a true and correct copy of the January 7, 2020 City Council Meeting Minutes, which
were approved on January 21, 2020.

South Jordan City Recorder
1-7-20 CC Mtg - Attachment B
OAK HILLS SUBDIVISION
OAK HILLS STORM DRAIN
SOUTH JORDAN CITY COUNCIL MEETING
          January 7th, 2020
 What is a General Plan?
The General Plan is a blueprint for how the City should grow
and develop into the future. It is…

                 Visionary

                 Reflective of the Community

                 A Framework For Future Decisions

                 A Living Document
The General Plan makes decisions like….
       Locations of houses, apartments,
       offices, and stores
       How people get around – including
       freeways, public transit, walkways, and
       bike paths
       Providing parks and recreational
       facilities
       Protection of open space and habitat
       How buildings are designed
       Size and placement of streets,
       sidewalks, and sewers
       Whether the way communities are built
       creates a sense of safety and
       connection
                   PHASE 1                                              PHASE 2                                                     PHASE 3
                 FOUNDATION                          VISIONING                              OPPORTUNITIES                        THE PLAN




                                                                                                                Event Series 4
Event Series 1




                                                                           Event Series 3
                                    Event Series 2                                          AND CHOICES
                 Stakeholder                         Visioning Events                                                            Online Survey #4
                 Interviews                                                                 Opportunities and
                                                     Online Survey #2                       Choices Events
                 Online Survey #1
                                                                                            Online Survey #3
WWW.SouthJordanGeneralPlan.com
Draft Plan Public Process To Date

•   Public Draft Released September 10th
•   Combined PC/CC Worksession October 1st
•   Planning Commission Meeting #1 October 22nd
•   Planning Commission Meeting #2 November 12th
•   Staff Worksession November 13th
•   Planning Commission Work Session Canceled
•   Planning Commission Hearing December 10th
         What CHALLENGES face South Jordan?




Plan Format and Objectives
                     What’s in the plan?
Chapter 1:
  ◦   Why we are planning
  ◦   How the Plan will be
      used
  ◦   Update Process
  ◦   Vision Statements
  ◦   Future Land Use
                     What’s in the plan?
Chapter 2-7:
  ◦   Existing conditions
  ◦   Trends and public input
  ◦   Framework map
  ◦   Vision
  ◦   Goals
  ◦   Strategies
                              What’s in the plan?
Chapter 8:
  ◦       Plan amendment process
  ◦       Keystone indicators
  ◦       Implementation table
      ◦    Actions, type, timeline, cost
  ◦       Implementation Matrix
      ◦    Cost/effectiveness chart
                What’s in the plan?
Appendix A – Housing Report
Appendix B - Transportation Master Plan
Appendix C – Public Outreach
Appendix D – Existing Conditions Snapshots
Appendix F – Large Scale Maps
         What CHALLENGES face South Jordan?




Community-Built Vision Statements
 How We Move

“South Jordan offers numerous choices for
safe and efficient travel by offering walkable
destinations, connected development patterns,
and continuous pathways for pedestrians and
bicycles with enhanced safety features
ensuring access for every resident and visitor.”
 Where We Live


“South Jordan is a balanced community that
provides a range of desirable housing forms
and amenities that appeal to all stages of life
and lifestyles, while retaining its one-of-a-kind
character and heritage.”
  Where We Work


“South Jordan is a strong and resilient economy
that attracts a skilled and vibrant workforce
through a balance of both large-scale economic
generators that encourage new, high-quality
development, and neighborhood-oriented shops
and businesses that preserve and build on our
local character.”
Where We Gather

“South Jordan has active, vibrant, and
unique destinations that encourage
socialization, entertainment, art, local
events, and celebrations that connect people
together.”
 Where We Play


“South Jordan has a growing network of parks
and trails that offer access to and between
neighborhoods while offering exceptional trail
amenities.”
How We Grow

“South Jordan is a healthy and safe community
that provides a variety of high-quality community
services and amenities to all residents,
encourages water and resource conservation,
and strengthens community resiliency and fiscal
sustainability with each new development
through open communication and cohesive
development patterns.”
         What CHALLENGES face South Jordan?




Future Land Use
                Future Land Use VS Zoning
Future Land Use                                Zoning
  ◦   Community’s visual guide to future         ◦   Depicts the current allowed use of
      planning                                       a specific parcel of land per the
  ◦   Looks to the next 10-20 years, as land         definitions of the zoning code
      becomes developed/redeveloped              ◦   Needs a rezone to change
  ◦   Brings together the elements of the        ◦   Specific densities assigned to each
      plan such as natural resources,                zone per the zoning code
      economic development, housing and
      transportation.
  ◦   Typically broad strokes over several
      parcels of land
Current Zoning
Future Land Use
