                                  SOUTH JORDAN CITY
                             CITY COUNCIL STUDY MEETING

                                       January 21, 2020

Present:      Mayor Dawn Ramsey, Council Member Brad Marlor, Council Member Jason
              McGuire, Council Member Don Shelton, Council Member Tamara Zander, CM
              Gary Whatcott, ACM Dustin Lewis, City Attorney Ryan Loose, Planning
              Director Stephen Schaefermeyer, Assistant Attorney Todd Sheeran, Strategic
              Services Director Don Tingey, Planner Brad Sanderson, City Council Secretary
              MaryAnn Dean

Others:       Attachment A

STUDY MEETING

Mayor Ramsey welcomed everyone present. She excused Council Member Harris.

       A. Invocation: By Council Member, Tamara Zander

Council Member Zander offered the invocation.

       B. Mayor and Council Coordination

Council Member Marlor said he met with CFO Naidu last week, in preparation for the upcoming
budget discussions. It was a very productive meeting.

Mayor Ramsey said she met with the Executive Board of Directors for the Utah League of Cities
and Towns. She was able to meet with and share with Governor Herbert some of the great work
South Jordan has done with housing and their collaboration with Ivory Homes. She said they
discussed affordable housing vs housing affordability. She noted that nearly all communities are
in compliance with the requirements of SB34. The rest of the communities will be in compliance
this month.

Council Member Shelton said the Saturday morning legislative round up with the Western
Growth Coalition will begin after the legislative session starts.

       C. Discussion/Review of Regular Council Meeting

Council Member Shelton said he sent an email to CFO Naidu with questions on the budget
amendment. It was noted that staff’s response was sent to all members of the City Council
(Attachment B).

CM Whatcott said they will have both a City Council and RDA meeting tonight.
South Jordan City                                                                                 2
City Council Study Meeting
January 21, 2020

CM Whatcott noted the text amendment on tonight’s agenda regarding flag lots. He said they
reviewed the general plan last meeting. No one spoke at the public hearing. He said they can take
a vote on the general plan tonight, but don’t have to. City Attorney Loose said if there is no vote
on the general plan tonight, he recommended they set a date certain for a vote to inform the
public.

Planning Director Schaefermeyer said there was also a public hearing on the general plan with
the Planning Commission, with a recommendation to the City Council for approval. He also
noted several public meetings that were held for the public to give input.

The City Council took a brief dinner break.

         D. Discussion: Crown Castle requests for text amendments regarding cell towers. (By
            Planning Director, Steven Schaefermeyer)

Mr. Schaefermeyer reviewed the background information on this item.

Scott Harry, Government Affairs Manager for Crown Castle, said they are a publicly traded
company. They are a communication infrastructure provider for fiber optic cable, cell towers,
and small cell infrastructure.

Scott September, Real Estate Manager for Crown Castle, reviewed a prepared presentation
(Attachment C).

Craig Chagnon, Crown Castle, reviewed the proposed zone text amendment and existing tower
infrastructure with interested cell phone applicants (part of Attachment C).

Council Member Shelton said the owner of the Glenmoor Golf Course talked about making the
cell tower in that location look like a tree. Mr. Chagnon said they are not sure what the best
design will be for that location. Mr. Schaefermeyer said there is talk of the tower at Glenmoor
being 100 ft. tall.

Council Member Shelton asked how can we allow flexibility and still have influence over
aesthetics?

Mr. Harry said the towers are necessary; there will probably be more larger towers built. He said
the small cells fill in where the large towers are insufficient. He said they have to put in more
infrastructure to handle more technology. He said the large towers are for coverage, the small
cells are for capacity.

Council Member Shelton said the cell phone coverage on the west side of the city is awful. Mr.
Schaefermeyer said there is a lack of monopoles in Daybreak. Strategic Services Director Tingey
said Daybreak only has roof mounted poles.

Mr. Schaefermeyer reviewed some of the proposed zone text amendment changes.
South Jordan City                                                                                    3
City Council Study Meeting
January 21, 2020

Council Member Zander asked how many cell phone companies are allowed on 1 pole? Planner
Sanderson said there is not a limit on antennas. Mr. Harry said it has to do with the coverage.
The lower they are on a pole, the less coverage there is. It was noted that the ordinance allows up
to 100 ft. poles; there is no restriction on how low the equipment can go on the pole.

Council Member Marlor asked how many colocations are on a 100 ft. pole? Mr. Harry said that
could accommodate 4 carriers.

CM Whatcott said people like the reliable use of cell phones, but they dislike cell towers. He said
much of the Ordinance was created due to public comment.

Council Member McGuire said he has been receiving emails regarding 5g poles. He said the
sentiment hasn’t changed; the public still does not like cell towers.

Council Member Marlor said he wants to make sure they can communicate. There are areas in
the community where towers don’t belong. He said they should mandate co-location.

Mr. Schaefermeyer said right now, there is a distance requirement on poles. They can install
more poles. It was noted that on the east side of the city, there is so much residential. As they put
restrictions on the poles, there are fewer places the poles can go.

Mr. Hardy said they used to be able to go 1-2 miles between poles; that is not the case anymore.

Council Member Zander said the issue of cell towers needs to be readdressed in Daybreak. She
said she is in favor of increasing what is needed to fix the problem. They should be thoughtful
about where the towers will go. She feels the design of the top of the Glenmoor pole is less of an
eyesore. She does not favor the more dense design. She said moving the infrastructure out so it is
6-10 inches wider is not a problem. She said she is concerned that the developer has restrictions
on the towers in the area where the residents are clamoring the loudest.

Council Member Marlor concurred that he likes the look of the top of the Glenmoor tower.

It was noted that if they are building a large tower that looks like a tree, they can still have 4
carriers on that tower. Mr. Schaefermeyer said the code says to make the tower “stealth”. It can
be camouflaged in different ways. They can determine what is appropriate for different areas.

City Attorney Loose said the pole could extend above 100 ft. and beyond the 36 inch
circumference. There are some legal issues. The boundaries are being pushed to meet customer’s
needs. There are still arguments on RF (radiofrequency). There will be opposition as much or
more than they experienced with the Rocky Mountain Power line issue.

Council Member Zander recommended they look at the city map and determine where the towers
are appropriate, especially on the west side. City Attorney Loose said they can justify the need.
Council Member Zander said they need to be proactive with this issue on the west side.
South Jordan City                                                                                  4
City Council Study Meeting
January 21, 2020

Mr. Schaefermeyer said they can do a map where they feel it is appropriate to have pole sites.
Council Member Zander concurred that they should do an analysis of the city to determine where
the gaps in coverage are and what is recommended. She said they want to ensure that the
problems are fixed.

Mr. Harry said they work with firms to do those analysis. Council Member Zander asked if
Crown Castle could do that study so they can make their decisions on reliable information and
not guess work.

Council Member Marlor said he wants there to be enough towers, but not go overboard. They
need to determine what is useful and efficient.

Jan Robinet, AT&T, said comparing carriers is not comparing apples to apples. Different carriers
have different needs. It was noted that Debbie Lowe with AT&T was also present.

Council Member Zander indicated support in moving forward and working on this issue. Council
Member McGuire concurred, but would like it discussed in a study session before they bring
forward a new Ordinance. Council Member Marlor and Council Member Shelton concurred.
Council Member Shelton said they may need to consider a communication plan as part of the
general plan. Mayor Ramsey concurred.

Mr. Schaefermeyer said they can solve short term issues quickly, and then do a long term study
and consider a communications plan.

Mayor Ramsey said they want adequate coverage in the city, but they do not want to upset
people.

         E. Discussion: Review of Interlocal Agreements with Salt Lake County. (By Strategic
            Services Director, Don Tingey)

Strategic Services Director Tingey passed out a copy of an email sent to the Salt Lake County
Mayor and Council in October (Attachment D). He reviewed the email. He also reviewed the
South Jordan City and Salt Lake County Parks and Recreation time table (Attachment E).

Mr. Tingey said at the next City Council meeting, they will be discussing an operations
agreement for operations of the center. They will also be discussing the conveyance agreement.
They will address the park authority agreement 1-2 meetings later. It was noted that if the park
authority is not met, the other agreements are undone. The only thing that is separate from the
agreements is the $3 million, which is what the city obligated as part of the zap application.

Mayor Ramsey said since they have not had all the agreements together, there has not been a
public announcement yet. She said there is a lot of negative chatter about it. They need to lead
out on messaging about what this is. She said she would like the messaging both in print and
video form.
South Jordan City                                                                                 5
City Council Study Meeting
January 21, 2020

Communications Manager Rachel Van Cleave said they have not wanted to officially
communicate about this until all of the agreements are solid. She said they have been working
with Salt Lake County staff. There will be the same FAQ page on the city and the county
website. They will be sending letters to those with memberships. They will also be sending
messages out to the residents on all of their various communication channels.

City Attorney Loose said they can broadcast that it will be on the next City Council agenda. It
was noted that word has gotten out by county employees and some people are upset.

Mayor Ramsey said she would like to see the message before it is sent out to the public.
Administrative Services Director Kyle said they will also give educational information at the
next City Council meeting.

         F. Staff Item: Legislative Priorities for 2020 Session. (By Council Member Jason
            McGuire)

This item was discussed later in the meeting. See Staff Comments in the regular City Council
meeting minutes.

ADJOURNMENT

Council Member Shelton made a motion to adjourn. Council Member McGuire seconded
the motion. The vote was 4-0 in favor.

The January 21, 2020 City Council meeting adjourned at 6:37 p.m.

This is a true and correct copy of the January 21, 2020 City Council Study Meeting
Minutes, which were approved on February 4, 2020.

South Jordan City Recorder
                                      01-21-20 CC Study Mtg - Attachment B


Here are a few questions I have from my review of the packet for the meeting tonight. We can review in
the Study Meeting if that works best for you. They are in the order I came across them in my study.

1‐RDA Down payment assistance and rehabilitation assistance. How will we know if a person that has
entered into an agreement with us is renting the home instead of using it as a primary residence.
       Staff will perform simple audit annually. Tax notices and utility bills will reflect whether
owned or rented.

2‐I thought we had a reduction in Sales Tax Revenue. Can you show me where to find that reduction in
our budget?
        We are not adjusting the budget as of mid‐year. My intent is to not make any amendment but
balance with the savings at the end of the fiscal year as we had done last fiscal year. However, we will
keep track of the revenues and if amendment needed, it will be done as of the Final Amended Budget.

3‐Page 1 of the budget, General Fund Summary: How did out charges for service go up by over
$400,000? What is accounted for in Charges for Service?
        This increase in revenues is due to moving Recreation Programs from Fitness Center Budget to
General Fund Budget. This is an accounting (reporting) change in transition to ownership change.

4‐Are we moving all city staff out of the fitness center? I assumed that at least some of them would stay
with the fitness center and become county staff.
        No, we are only moving two staff. 1. The Associate Director of Recreation and 2. Custodian.

5‐Page 13 of the budget: I am curious about the sidewalk inspection machine. What does it do?
        The machine is driven on the side walk. It’s an efficient way to capture hazard and
incorporate into GIS. This become a tool for the side walk maintenance program.


6‐How much money is in the water fund reserve? Wouldn’t we show interest income on page 26 of the
budget?
       Reserve Fund Balance: $10,172,192 ‐ This balance is in the Water General Fund currently
budgeted at $200,000.


7‐Page 28 of the budget. How many employees are there in the sanitation department? Given that we
contract for our curbside pick‐up what do the employees do?
        4 Total employees

        Job Duties:
        1. Deliver/repair/service over 45,000 Garbage/Recycling City Owned cans (year round).
        2. Service neighborhood dumpster program (year round).
        3. Manage recycling program.
8‐Page 28 of the budget shows 24,000 in interest earnings. How much money is in the Sanitation Fund
Reserves?
        Projected Reserve Fund Balance:        $4,585,938

9‐Page 30 of the budget. What projects are being worked on at Mulligan’s right now? How much do we
have in Reserves?

Projects:
        1. Mini golf renovation (budgeted $125,000)
        2. Ball wash shed (budget $15,000)
        3. Parking lot repairs (budgeted $15,000)
        4. Pro shop & Design ($76,529 carried over from last year)
Fund Balance:
        Projected to be approximately $699,698

10‐Page 41 of the budget shows a fee schedule that includes renting space that the city owns. Have we
had any rental income? Does it happen often? Where does that revenue show up in the budget?
So far rented about 5 times. They are mostly rented during afterhours.


Thanks, Gary and Sunil. That’s all I have right now.

Don S.
              01-21-20 CC Study Mtg - Attachment C




South Jordan City
Council Study
Session
Wireless Ordinance Text Amendment
JANUARY
2020
                                                                        PAGE
                                                      The pathway
                                                     PROPRIETARY    to possible.
                                                                 & CONFIDENTIAL
                   PAGE
 The pathway
PROPRIETARY    to possible.
            & CONFIDENTIAL
Wireless Technology:
How it Works?
 • Cellular Network Handoffs
 • Wireless Spectrum (RF) – A Finite Resource
 • Frequency Reuse
 • High Speed Data/Low Latency/Capacity Demands
                                                                   PAGE
                                                 The pathway
                                                PROPRIETARY    to possible.
                                                            & CONFIDENTIAL
              Equipment Challenges




Current Ordinance    New Ordinance   Industry Proposed

                                                              PAGE 4
                                            PROPRIETARY & CONFIDENTIAL
Zone Text Amendment
• Section 6409 Eligible Facility Requests
• Shelters, Walls and Screening
• Flush Mounting vs. Stand-Off Mounts
• Landscaping
• Noise Studies
                                                               PAGE
                                             The pathway
                                            PROPRIETARY    to possible.
                                                        & CONFIDENTIAL
Monte Vista School
• T-Mobile Collocation via 6409 Eligibility
• Consistent with Existing Use and Design
• AT&T Original CUP 2006



                                                                 PAGE
                                               The pathway
                                              PROPRIETARY    to possible.
                                                          & CONFIDENTIAL
Monte Vista School




                                        PAGE
                      The pathway
                     PROPRIETARY    to possible.
                                 & CONFIDENTIAL
Glenmoor Golf Course
 • Verizon Collocation (Sprint & T-Mobile on Tower)
 • Original Approval Allowed Standoff
 • Stealth Design Proposed


                                                                 PAGE
                                               The pathway
                                              PROPRIETARY    to possible.
                                                          & CONFIDENTIAL
Glenmoor Golf Course




                                          PAGE
                        The pathway
                       PROPRIETARY    to possible.
                                   & CONFIDENTIAL
11500 S Redwood Rd
 • Verizon & AT&T New Collocations
 • Very Limited Space
 • Commercial Zone / Back Lot
 • Existing Screening


                                                        PAGE
                                      The pathway
                                     PROPRIETARY    to possible.
                                                 & CONFIDENTIAL
11500 S Redwood Rd




                                        PAGE
                      The pathway
                     PROPRIETARY    to possible.
                                 & CONFIDENTIAL
11800 South 6000 West
• Verizon New Collocation Application
• PacificCorp Utility Site
• Limited Space for Add Land
• Existing Screening – Existing Stand-Off Mounts


                                                                  PAGE
                                                The pathway
                                               PROPRIETARY    to possible.
                                                           & CONFIDENTIAL
11800 South 6000 West




                                           PAGE
                         The pathway
                        PROPRIETARY    to possible.
                                    & CONFIDENTIAL
Thank you
For further information please contact:
Craig Chagnon
(801) 979.9077
Craig.chagnon@crowncastle.com




                                                            PAGE 14
                                          PROPRIETARY & CONFIDENTIAL
