                                   SOUTH JORDAN CITY
                                  CITY COUNCIL MEETING

                                        February 4, 2020

Present:       Mayor Dawn Ramsey, Council Member Patrick Harris, Council Member Brad
               Marlor, Council Member Jason McGuire, Council Member Don Shelton, Council
               Member Tamara Zander, CM Gary Whatcott, Police Chief Jeff Carr,
               Administrative Services Director Spencer Kyle, City Commerce Director Brian
               Preece, Finance Director Sunil Naidu, Strategic Services Director Don Tingey,
               ACM Dustin Lewis, City Attorney Ryan Loose, Fire Chief Chris Dawson,
               Planning Director Steven Schaefermeyer, Engineering Director Brad Klavano,
               Public Works Director Jason Rasmussen, IT Director Jon Day, City Council
               Secretary MaryAnn Dean

Others:        Attachment A

REGULAR MEETING

       A. Welcome and Roll Call – Mayor Dawn Ramsey

Mayor Ramsey welcomed everyone present. All members of the City Council were present.

       B. Invocation – By CFO, Sunil Naidu

CFO Naidu offered the invocation.

       C. Pledge of Allegiance – By Strategic Services Director, Don Tingey

Strategic Services Director Tingey led the audience in the Pledge of Allegiance.

       D. Minute Approval

           D.1. January 21, 2020 Council Study Meeting
           D.2. January 21, 2020 City Council Meeting

Council Member McGuire said he submitted some changes to the minutes via email.

Council Member McGuire made a motion to approve the January 21, 2020 Council Study
meeting minutes, and the January 21, 2020 City Council meeting minutes, as listed. Council
Member Zander seconded the motion. The vote was unanimous in favor.

       E. Mayor and Council Reports

Council Member Marlor reported on the Chamber of Commerce annual vision dinner. He
reported on the Architectural Review Committee meeting. He said he attended local officials day
South Jordan City                                                                                     2
City Council Meeting
February 4, 2020



at the Legislature. He said it was nice to talk to local officials to see what they are working on.
He said they held a budget session for the City Council and staff. He said he attended a wedding
for Council Member Zander’s son.

Council Member Zander thanked CFO Naidu for the explanation of the budget. They had a good
discussion. She said they were able to talk to their local legislators at the local officials’ day on
January 29th. She said today, they opened the light at 11800 South Kestral Drive. She said her
neighbors are excited for the light. She noted her son’s recent wedding.

Council Member McGuire noted the recent budget meeting. He said when they cut taxes, many
times they have to cut services, such as snow plows. It was noted that the public works
maintenance workers help with snow plowing. He said all employees do multiple tasks to keep
the city functioning. He said he attended the LPC meeting, and gave an update on that in the
study session. He said if the residents are concerned about something, they need to reach out to
the City Council Members. He said he attended local officials day held by ULCT.

Council Member Harris said he also attended the local officials’ day. He said a year ago at that
meeting, they talked about tax reform and its impact on the city. That issue has now come to a
halt and there was some sense of relief from a lot of cities. This time, they talked about water
conservation. He said they interacted with local representatives to let them know the needs of the
city. He said he attended the city budget meeting. The direction they are looking to go is to keep
taxes low. He attended the historical preservation committee meeting and they are looking at
having a link on people’s phones to go to historical sites in the city and give them all of the
historical information about those sites.

Council Member Shelton said he attended the Chamber of Commerce vision dinner; the Mayor’s
address was excellent. He also attended the city’s budget work session. He attended the weekly
legislative update, and they heard from their legislators. They also received a summary report
from the City Attorney from the weekly legislative update.

Mayor Ramsey said she is grateful for the help she has received as she recovers from foot
surgery. She thanked staff for their snow removal efforts. She reported on the Chamber of
Commerce event. She attended the Jordan Education Foundation donor appreciation luncheon.
She attended the sewer district meeting. She said she met with the Governor with the ULCT
officers. She noted the recent city budget meeting. She reported on Local Officials Day; she said
there was some conflicts in the schedule for the Youth Council and they will try to ensure that
does not happen in the future. She met with Speaker Wilson about outcomes of SB34. She said
she thanked him for the list of options given in SB34. She said Speaker Wilson is aware of South
Jordan’s good work. She offered the invocation at the legislature last Friday. Last week, she
visited with over 100 legislators and local officials. She attended the Utah School Board
Association Joint Legislative Committee Meeting. She thanked everyone for the light at 118th
Kestrel Rise Rd.; she has received thanks from Riverton City as well.

         F. Presentation: Review of Action Item J. Interlocal Agreements with Salt Lake
            County. (By Strategic Services Director, Don Tingey)
South Jordan City                                                                                    3
City Council Meeting
February 4, 2020




Strategic Services Director Tingey reviewed the background information for Action Item J. This
has taken a unified effort from the Council and staff of the City and County, and they have
worked on it intently for the last couple years. He said this has actually been about a 20 year
discussion. He said in the County’s 2002 master plan, it said Marv Jensen would be closed in 2
years so it has been the plan for some time. Last year at this time, they put a date on the Marv
Jensen closure. It was an inevitable decision that Marv Jensen would be closed. The closure date
would have been earlier, but they worked with the Jordan School District and the swim teams.

Mr. Tingey said in 2002, the City bonded for the South Jordan Fitness and Aquatic Center. At
that time, they talked about a joint City/County facility. The County was not on board and the
City determined to move forward with the center. There was an RDA exception at that time that
allowed communities to build rec centers with RDA tax increment funds. There were RDA funds
allocated to build the fitness center. There was no general fund taxes used for the construction or
the operation of the rec center. One regret was not doing a pool expansion for a competitive pool
or lap lanes. He said that has been a desire of the residents, and has been considered numerous
times. He said they had hoped this agreement would include the pool expansion, but there is
currently a gap in funding that is needed. He said the city, school district, and county are all
committed to looking at that feasibility and finding the ability to expand the pool in the future.
They need to wait for the sale of Marv Jensen to understand the true gap in funding for the pool
expansion. The city considered doing the pool expansion alone, but the community was not in
favor of a tax or fee increase to pay for it. He said with the closure of Marv Jensen, the
partnership is good. There are tradeoffs, but they also save a lot of money.

Mr. Tingey said they re-authorized the zap tax 4-5 years ago, and went in with the county for the
Bingham Creek Regional Park. It is a generational regional park. The City leveraged $3 million
for the park, and $12 million in zap funding will be used for the first phase. The City wanted
some influence over the construction and management of the park. They looked at how the
Sugerhouse park partnership was created, and their vision is to have this park have the same
charm as Sugarhouse Park. It will take a lot of money. As funding becomes available, they will
work at the Bingham Creek Park Master Plan. He said as they considered how to become equal
partners in that park, the idea came about to transfer the value of the recreation center to the park,
and have it be county owned and operated. In turn, the city gets ownership in the Bingham Creek
Regional Park. The city and county employees are working to make the transfer, on April 1,
2020, as seamless as possible. Mr. Tingey said the membership rates at the rec center will be the
same as the Marv Jensen facility. He reviewed the fee schedule comparison (Attachment B). To
date, all city employees at the rec center have moved to be county employees. He said the rec
center memberships will be honored for the time period that they were purchased in. He said
they have been able to pay for the operations of the rec center through membership fees and
recreation programming. The amount is approximately $400,000 annually. He said the city does
not make money on the rec center, they don’t even break even. He said they will take the outdoor
programming and use that for recreation programming at city parks. They will also have some
priority programming time at the Bingham Creek Regional Park. When they are an equal partner
in the park, they will pay equal in capital and operational costs at the Bingham Creek Regional
Park. He said the programming in the rec center is intended to be the same, with the same
South Jordan City                                                                                   4
City Council Meeting
February 4, 2020



instructors. They will work to make that transition as seamless as possible. He said the hours of
operation will remain the same.

         G. Public Comment:

Larry Short, said the rec center has been a good asset for the city. He asked if the city can trade
the property without a public hearing? He referred to a court case (Attachment C) that states they
can trade property, but it has to be good for the city. He asked when was the appraisal done on
the rec center? How much is it worth? Where is the feasibility study? How much is the raw land
worth? Is there a cap that they will put on money invested in the park? He asked if they trade the
property, when does the first phase of the park get done? Will they have a say in what is done?
What will it cost to be a general partner in the park? He said this issue has been going on since
he was on the City Council. He feels the rec center could be worth more than what they are
talking about. He asked if they have done their due diligence in the various costs? He said the
appraisals and feasibility studies need to be up to date and proper. He said they had taxes that
went to the rec center. It is just taking from one pocket to the other. He said they should talk to
the county to use the center of the racetrack for soccer fields.

David Bourne, 2564 Van Ross Dr., said they enjoyed raising their 5 children here. He and his
wife have been involved in various volunteer organizations. He said their kids have been
involved in various activities, including competitive swim team. He expressed support for the
proposal to bring world class amenities to the city, maintain the amenities that they have, without
raising taxes. He said he understands these type of agreements are complicated. He said it is
impressive to achieve something of this complexity.

Scott Osborne, 10156 Chattel Cir., said this plan causes him pause. He said he has not found
many times where government is successful relinquishing private control to a larger entity. He
said when they have an organization not in touch with their own community, it is problematic.
He is familiar with Welby pit; they annexed it into the city when he was Mayor. He said there
was a joint agreement that they were already going to be equal partners with the project. He is
troubled by the opportunity being presented. He said they have seen over the last several years
how they don’t have complete control over programming in some of their parks. He said they
should use caution moving forward with the relinquishment of local control and to be able to
manage their own recreation.

Shirley Nelson, 11223 S. Autumn Farm Dr., said she would like this reconsidered. She said the
county has mismanaged assets that they have. She said the Herriman swim team was promised
use of the JL Sorenson facility and they are now having to go to Kearns. She would like to see a
pool here for the kids. Is the county going to make commitments to their kids and then back out?
She said they mismanaged Marv Jensen. She said she did not know about this deal until last
month. She said the instructors at the rec centers are taking a pay cut and won’t be there
anymore. She said she sees Daybreak being their own city eventually and South Jordan won’t
have access to it. She would pay more taxes to keep the rec center.
South Jordan City                                                                                      5
City Council Meeting
February 4, 2020



Luane Jensen, 11186 S. 2700 W., concurred with the comments of Mr. Short and Mr. Osborne.
She said she was here when it all stated. The rec center did not cost the city any money to build
it. She said they own it free and clear. She said it is hard to believe that the memberships can’t
pay to run the place. She does not think they should give it up. She said she thought other cities
were participating in the Bingham Creek Regional Park. She thought the rec center was going to
be a joint thing with the city, county, and the school district. She said the county owes the city.
The equestrian center does not help South Jordan. They build outdoor pools and other things for
other cities. She said the city doesn’t have to give up what we own and let the county take it
over. She said she trusts the City Council. The rec center is ours and should stay under our
control. She said the school district needs to be more involved. She said they should fight for that
rather than relinquish it.

Sydney Dial, 2535 W. 11170 S., said she loves going to the rec center because it is clean. She
said when it is time to do surveys about raising taxes to do a fitness center or a pool, Daybreak
will vote against it because they have 5 pools and a rec center that the rest of the residents can’t
use. Their votes should be weighted differently. She said they should rethink this. If the County
treats the rec center the same as they did Marv Jensen, it will be falling apart in a few years.

         H. Presentation: Recognition of Scott Osborne’s Service to Jordan Valley Water
            Conservancy District. (By Mayor Dawn Ramsey)

Mayor Ramsey recognized Scott Osborne for his 8 years of service to the JVWCD board. She
said he has been a strong advocate and representative for the city.

Mr. Osborne said he was honored to sit on that board and represent the city of South Jordan. He
said South Jordan was always pointed out as a city that was progressive. He said the board has
passed some new Resolution and South Jordan is showing leadership in asking for explanations
so they can make the policies needed for water conservation. He said he is grateful for the
opportunity to understand the complexities of water. He noted a small increase in water rates this
year.

Mayor Ramsey presented Mr. Osborne with a plaque, and thanked him for his service.

         I. Action Item: Resolution R2020-01, First Amendment to the Ridgeview Development
            Agreement. (By Planning Director, Steven Schaefermeyer or Greg Schindler)

Planning Director Schaefermeyer reviewed the background information on this item (Attachment
D). He reviewed the changes to the development agreement.

Mayor Ramsey said this was addressed in a previous work meeting.

Matt Anderson, applicant, was introduced.

Council Member Zander said she appreciates the addition of the xeriscaping grass. She asked if
the super home is the only 3 car garage product? Mr. Anderson said they have 27 home sites,
South Jordan City                                                                                      6
City Council Meeting
February 4, 2020



with 4 different plans. Half of the plans have a 3rd car garage. It was noted that they have a 5 ft.
setback.

Council Member Zander said her concern was breaking up the look of the concrete with some
softscape. They reviewed the guidelines for the softscape. It was noted that the restriction on
concrete is only 2 ft.

Council Member Shelton said he wants to make sure this is not an accessory dwelling unit in
disguise. Mr. Anderson said that was addressed in a previous study session with the City
Council. He said this layout provides the ability to have someone in the family live with them,
such as parents, older children, or special needs children. It has a kitchenette, but nothing to cook
with. To cook, they would have to go to the main part of the home to the kitchen.

Council Member Harris said there is a need for this product. He said he likes the fact that it will
be the largest and nicest home in the subdivision. There are families that have these type of
needs. It is a nice layout for a home.

Council Member Zander made a motion to approve Resolution R2020-01. Council Member
Harris seconded the motion. The vote was unanimous in favor.

         J. Action Item: Resolution R2020-10, authorizing the Mayor to enter into Two
            Interlocal Cooperation Agreements with Salt Lake County on behalf of its Parks and
            Recreation Division for the South Jordan Fitness and Aquatic Center. (By Strategic
            Services Director, Don Tingey)

Council Member McGuire asked about the history of the joint control, when the land was
annexed into South Jordan, was there an agreement already in place? CM Whatcott said there
was discussion about a partnership, but that never evolved. Most of those discussions were about
Daybreak contributing to part of that park at the time. It was a completely different set of
circumstances. It had nothing to do with the annexation of the property.

Mr. Tingey said the county has always wanted the city at the table regarding discussions of the
park, even when there was the potential of not having the park authority and they were going
through the ZAP process. The $3 million from the city was independent of the park authority.
The $3 million city contribution ensured that the city would get a certain amount of priority
usage at the park; it was never a 50/50 partner.

CM Whatcott said West Jordan was asked to participate and they withdrew from participating in
the ZAP process and the ownership in the park.

City Attorney Loose said there was a partnership to be joint applicants with the ZAP grant. There
were no agreements with annexation; there were discussions, but nothing formalized or
contingent.
South Jordan City                                                                                   7
City Council Meeting
February 4, 2020



Council Member McGuire asked if the park authority is for life? Mr. Tingey said yes, for the life
of the park.

Council Member McGuire asked if they need a public hearing to be able to trade the property?
City Attorney Loose said the law requires that when they dispose of a parcel of property, it has to
go through a public process. The City Council makes that decision. South Jordan has defined
what is “significant” is any parcel over an acre. In this case, it is being decided by the City
Council through this vote and through the agreements. That is the disposition of the property.
The law also requires that the consideration be fair market value. He said the county has the
same requirement because they are giving up full ownership of the park. That value and
consideration is equal on both sides for the exchange, or neither side could do it. It is not dollar
for dollar; it is a range that a court would deem reasonable. He said courts give a wide degree of
latitude to City Councils, unless the action is arbitrary, directly prohibits or is against the law,
then it is deemed oaky. He said this is not an arbitrary decision. There is nothing in the law that
he or the county attorneys know about that would prohibit either side to do this deal.

Mr. Tingey said they did an interlocal agreement with the county for parking at the public safety
building. They did a similar land/value trade, so they have done a similar agreement fairly
recently.

Council Member Shelton said it is his impression that membership fees do not cover the total
cost of running the rec center. Mr. Naidu said that is correct. They have outdoor recreation
programs in addition.

Council Member Shelton said the rec center is not paid off, is that correct? Mr. Naidu said that is
correct. There is a bond outstanding. The final payment is scheduled in 2024. The bond will be
callable next year.

Council Member Shelton asked what control would the city have over future investments to
Bingham Creek Park? Mr. Tingey said they have equal representation with the park authority for
those improvements. The master plan for the park is done, as well as cost estimates per phase.
City Attorney Loose said the deal points in the agreement are done, but they are working on the
make up of the Board now. They will decide how the park finishes and is programmed. He said
the plan is for equal control, for example the city could have 2 people serve on the board, the
county could have 2 people serve on the board, and then they could have a joint person serve on
the board.

Council Member Marlor said his understanding is that the funds generated from the outdoor
recreation programming will be moved for operations for the Bingham Creek Park from the city
side. Mr. Tingey concurred that the funds will stay in the recreation division account.

Mr. Naidu discussed the structure of the rec center bond. It is covered by RDA funds and the
haircut provision. They are not spending from the general fund to pay for that bond currently.
South Jordan City                                                                                     8
City Council Meeting
February 4, 2020



Council Member Marlor said the rec center is in excellent condition. There may be a concern
that the county won’t run it as well. Mr. Tingey said there is a provision in the contract that the
county will ensure that the rec center is maintained. Council Member Marlor said that is
something he will be looking for.

Council Member Harris said if the county decides to sell the property, are there any provisions
that limit that or does the facility revert back to the city? City Attorney Loose said not expressly.
He said it would be difficult to sell the rec center given how they acquired the ground. He said
they can add that as a provision in the agreement. Mayor Ramsey concurred.

There was concern expressed that the county could sell the rec center and build one in another
community instead.

City Attorney Loose said with the partnership and the provisions, it would unravel the ownership
deal. Everything is joined together. He said if they sold the rec center, the county would be in
breach of contract legally.

Council Member Harris asked who owns the parking lot and who will maintain it? Mr. Tingey
said the city retains the parking lot to the west of the rec center. The parking lot in front of the
rec center will be owned by the county eventually. There will be a shared access. City Attorney
Loose said both parties will retain liability insurance for the parts they own. They will each
maintain the properties that they own. They will share in the maintenance of the shared property.

Council Member Harris asked about the pay cuts for the employees? Mr. Tingey said his
understanding with the full time employees, if their pay went down, it was to assimilate them
into the county pay structure. He said there are a few that said they moved to the county pay
structure. That was negotiated with the employees and the county HR staff. His understanding is
the same titles remain, and they made the salaries as comparable as possible. He believes the
difference is cents.

It was noted that one benefit of the full time city employees to have a free membership at the rec
center will no longer be available. CM Whatcott said the employees can use the gym equipment
at the public safety building.

Mayor Ramsey said the Herriman High swimmers are using the JL Sorensen recreation center.
Bingham and Copper Hills are using Kearns Oquirrh Park.

Mayor Ramsey asked if Daybreak can split into 2 different cities? City Attorney Loose said
under the current law, there is a disconnection statute, and it would be very hard to change that
law. He said there is no possibility of Daybreak splitting. Areas can disconnect if there are no
connecting pieces with the city, but in Daybreak, South Jordan owns the roads, the water system,
a significant part of the storm drain system. If they were to ever disconnect, there would be so
many details that would have to be worked out and mutually agreed upon. Daybreak can’t just
“leave”. He said Daybreak is essentially a large subdivision in the city.
South Jordan City                                                                                    9
City Council Meeting
February 4, 2020



Mr. Tingey said he was told that the instructors at the rec center will make more money than they
are currently. The full time employees have not all accepted job offers yet, but there is the
possibility that all employees will make at least the same if not more.

Mayor Ramsey said if they were not part of the park authority, they would not have equal say.
People want green space and want the area preserved. She said they do not want to see the 160
acre park not come to fruition or have the county sell it and turn the property into something else.
If they do the joint venture, the city will still have the rec center, they won’t be duplicating
recreation services with the county, and they will have a guarantee that the land will turn into a
park. The park authority makes sure that the park will go in. It won’t be owned by a single entity.
Because it will take a couple of decades to build the park, she does not think it will stay green
open space if they don’t create the park authority. She said looking at the big picture, and down
the road, this is the best opportunity to make sure the park becomes what it is supposed to be.
Otherwise, the city has no say and that is not in the best interest of the residents.

Council Member Zander agreed that this is in the best interest of the city long term. She
empathizes with those that are concerned with the change at the rec center. The expectations on
how the county runs it will be high. She said she loves the rec center and goes there often. She
said her understanding for the instructors is the pay is based on their experience and
certifications. The fear is if a teacher does not have the documentation or certification, the pay
could go down. She said the county has told her that they expect and want the current classes to
continue. She has been pleased with the county’s responsiveness and detail. The current classes
will stay and be added to.

Mayor Ramsey said there is a sense of loss that goes with this. She said she thinks the county did
not do as much maintenance with Marv Jensen because they knew it was closing. She said when
she goes to the JL Sorensen center, it is very nice, well maintained, and well programmed.

Mayor Ramsey said Marv Jensen was closing regardless. The city had no control over that. This
has been a unique collaborative effort to maximize services and try to achieve something else in
the future.

Council Member Zander said the city has done an excellent job managing the rec center and they
want that to continue. She said the feeling that local control is better is not lost on them. They
have to decide what is the best long term benefit for the city and the residents. She appreciates
the comments given and echoes the concern.

Council Member Harris said he understands why the City Council, Mayor and staff are pushing
this forward, and he understands the benefits to it. There are some give and takes that come with
it. He is concerned that in order to have influence at the Bingham Creek park, they have to give
away influence at the rec center. A lot of residents use the rec center. There is a level of service
expected at the rec center, and the city has direct influence to make sure it is clean and staffed.
When it is transferred, they cannot make those decisions. He said he is concerned that the
employees won’t be able to use this amenity for them or their families. He said this conversation
started because they needed more lap lanes. He said to be okay with this, he wanted to make sure
South Jordan City                                                                                   10
City Council Meeting
February 4, 2020



the pool commitment was solid. They still don’t have a finalized agreement for the pool. He
would rather wait on this until they have an agreement on the pool. He said the rec center means
a lot to everyone and he hopes that the county does a good job maintaining it. He said he hopes
that the pool comes forward in a way that makes sense. He said they need to make sure there is a
reverter clause, if the county wants to sell the rec center.

Mayor Ramsey said she feels strongly about the pool and they are working hard to get the pool.
She did not want to reach a deal without the pool. She will do everything she can to get it to that
point. She said the contribution from the city and from the school district are set for the pool.
They don’t know how much money they will get from Marv Jensen for the county portion.

City Attorney Loose said if they don’t get funding for the pool, it does not undo the rest of the
deal.

Council Member Marlor made a motion to approve Resolution R2020-10, and to have staff
add a provision to ensure that the rec center property is not sold by the county without the
city’s benefit. Council Member Shelton seconded the motion.

Council Member Marlor said he appreciates the feedback given tonight and throughout the
process. On anything of this size and importance, there is opposition. They need to make sure
they are voting in a way that they feel is representative of those that elected them and for the
future of the city. He said they are not getting rid of the rec center; it will be managed by the
county rather than the city. He believes they will have a pool there; the city, school district, and
county will participate in that. He said he believes the city needs to have some control over
Bingham Creek Park. It is a generational park. He feels this is in the best interest of the city. He
said they are residents of the city, but they are also residents of Salt Lake County. They will
make sure that the rec center is in good condition. This is in the best interest of the long term
parks and recreation opportunities in the city.

Council Member Shelton said he weighs more heavily the control over a developing park than
the control over an existing recreation center, especially in a valley where they are running out of
land and there is more demand for housing and increased densities. He said they will be doing
their children and beyond a disservice if they do not have control over a significant developing
park. He said they will continue to work on getting the pool lap lanes.

Council Member McGuire said South Jordan needs to be involved in this regional park. If it is
not done right, it won’t be a safe place for recreation. He said for the future of the recreation
needs in South Jordan, they need to be part of a park authority. This is the path to get there. He
said Sugarhouse Park is the jewel of the county’s park and recreation system because it had a
park authority. If they are not involved, Salt Lake County could sell the property and look for
places for homeless shelters and high density. As Salt Lake County residents, they still have
access to the recreation center. They are using the same pricing as Marv Jensen. This is the best
option to provide lap lanes that the residents have asked for. They did a survey about increasing
taxes to pay for the lap lanes, but the residents said no.
South Jordan City                                                                                     11
City Council Meeting
February 4, 2020



Council Member Zander said she appreciates the comments. She feels a vote in favor is long
term thinking. She works at the rec center and loves it; she will stay engaged there. She said the
park authority is exciting. She said for future generations, they should secure a say in that park.
She said they don’t have funds for the expansion of the pool and no one wants to raise taxes to
expand the pool. This is an option they feel is worth acting on. This is a long term view for her.

Council Member Harris said there are pros and cons to both approving and not approving this.

Mayor Ramsey said this is complicated and complex. This is the city and the county trying to
come together in a way that is unprecedented. The county is going through the same process. She
said getting this many people on the same page on something this significant is no small task.
There are a lot of strong people who care about who they represent; they all represent the same
people. This maximizes the services and is mutually beneficial. She feels it is the best they can
do for the big picture.

Roll call vote. The vote was 4-1 in favor, with Council Member Harris opposed.

Larry Short asked what happens if he appeals this decision? City Attorney Loose said this is not
a done agreement at this time. The county has to approve it and it is all contingent on the final
agreement, which will be in the next City Council meeting or two.

         K. Public Hearing: Tom Buckley Car Dealership – Located at 1231 W. South Jordan
            Parkway (PLZBA201900715). Resolution R2020-13, authorizing Mayor to sign a
            Development Agreement; RCV and Rezone Ordinance 2020-02-Z, rezoning the
            property from Commercial Community (C-C) to Commercial Community Planned
            Development (C-C-PD) RCV. Applicant Thomas Buckley. (By Planning Director,
            Steven Schaefermeyer or Greg Schindler)

Planning Director Schaefermeyer reviewed the background information on this item (Attachment
E). He said the Planning Commission forwarded a unanimous recommendation for approval.

Tom Buckley, representing GT motor cars, thanked the Mayor and City Council for allowing
him to present this. He said they will be doing extensive renovations on the interior and exterior.
The lead particulate will be removed to EPA standards. This will increase the tax revenue and
decrease traffic.

Mayor Ramsey opened the public hearing. There were no comments. She closed the public
hearing.

Council Member Harris made a motion to approve Resolution R2020-13. Council Member
McGuire seconded the motion.

Charles Beck, one of the owners of the building, and formerly an owner of the Gun Vault, said
the plan is to close the Gun Vault business down.
South Jordan City                                                                                    12
City Council Meeting
February 4, 2020



Council Member Zander said 25 cars seems like a lot for that property. Mr. Schaefermeyer said
25 cars can be accommodated.

Mr. Buckley said the maximum number of cars that they would have on the lot would be 25. It
will usually be more like 16-17. He said he was able to make contact with about half of the
residents behind the dealership, and all seemed positive with the proposal.

Mr. Buckley said at his Nashville property, the square footage of the building was smaller, and
there were more cars parked outside.

Council Member Harris restated his motion to approve Resolution R2020-13, and allow
some latitude for staff to make the needed clarifications to the development agreement.
Council Member McGuire seconded the motion.

Council Member Harris said he feels this will greatly improve the building and be a wonderful
addition to the city.

Roll call vote. The vote was unanimous in favor.

Council Member Harris made a motion to approve Rezone Ordinance 2020-02-Z, and to
allow staff the same latitude as approved in the development agreement. Council Member
McGuire seconded the motion. Roll call vote. The vote was unanimous in favor.

         L. Staff Reports and Calendaring Items

Mayor Ramsey noted that they approved the January 21, 2020 City Council meeting minutes, but
it was a City Council/RDA meeting.

Council Member Shelton made a motion to amend the approval of the January 21, 2020
City Council meeting minutes to the January 21, 2020 City Council/RDA meeting minutes.
Council Member Harris seconded the motion. The vote was unanimous in favor.

Police Chief Carr said they have had discussions regarding the use of their scarce resources to
make sure they are operating efficiently. He said their policy on residential intrusion alarms are
to only respond if there is a person at the home.

ACM Lewis said the police and fire are doing an active shooter exercise on March 20th. He
invited the City Council to observe. It’s at the SLCC Jordan Campus from 9 am to 2 pm.

Fire Chief Dawson said it involves a large number of agencies in the area. It’s a good exercise.


Council Member Harris asked how to get information on what is going on at the capital. City
Attorney Loose said they will be getting daily updates from the ULCT. Staff will send emails,
South Jordan City                                                                             13
City Council Meeting
February 4, 2020



but they don’t want to be redundant with the ULCT. At this time, most of the bills have not
directly affected the city.

ADJOURNMENT

Council Member Marlor made a motion to adjourn. Council Member Zander seconded the
motion. The vote was unanimous in favor.

The February 4, 2020 City Council meeting adjourned at 9:47 p.m.

This is a true and correct copy of the February 4, 2020 City Council Meeting Minutes,
which were approved on February 18, 2020.

South Jordan City Recorder
                           2-4-20 CC Meeting - Attachment B




       Categories          South Jordan                   Salt Lake County   Change
Adult (18+)                      $220                          $220            $-
Senior (60+) [age 61>]           $120                          $130          +$10.00
Youth (4-17) [age 3<]            $120                          $114          -$6.00
2 - Adults                       $325                          $340          +$15.00
2 - Seniors                      $175                          $200          +$25.00
Additional Youth                  $30                           $30            $-
Child (0-3) [age 3 to 4]         Free                           Free           $-
Daily Adult                        $5                           $6           +$1.00
Daily Senior                       $3                           $4           +$1.00
Daily Youth                        $3                           $3             $-
                                                            2-4-20 CC Meeting - Attachment D


bsanderson
2019-05-08 15:57:09
-------------------------------------------
- 193,026.4 sf
                                              11400 South




                                                                       Subject
                                                                       Property
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               11400 SOUTH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ENGINEERING AND SURVEYING, LLC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MIDVALE, UTAH 84047 PH: (801) 352-0075
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   32 WEST CENTER STREET

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        www.focusutah.com
                                                                                                                             COMMERCIAL                                                                                           COMMERCIAL                                                                 COMMERCIAL                                                                      COMMERCIAL
                                                                                                                                PAD A                                                                                                PAD B                                                                      PAD C                                                                           PAD D
                                                                                                                                         56875 sqft                                                                                           51050 sqft                                                              51690 sqft                                                                         59015 sqft
                                                                                                                                          1.31 acres                                                                                          1.17 acres                                                              1.19 acres                                                                         1.35 acres



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PARCEL A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          25359 sqft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.58 acres

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 STORMWATER/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 COMMERCIAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PAD E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 44516 sqft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.02 acres
                                                                                                     11.0'
                                 GRAPHIC SCALE                                                                                                                                                                 25.5'                                                                                 18.6'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   22.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           18.6'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       25.5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                      15.0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          15.0'
        80            0     40     80                 160               320
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           7 UNITS                                                                 6 UNITS                                                                   7 UNITS
                                                                                                                                                                             21.6'
                                                                                                                                                                                                     12.5'




                                                                                                                 5 UNITS
                                      ( IN FEET )
                                    1 inch = 80 ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   50' PUBLIC ROW                                                                                                                                                                           28' PRIVATE ALLEY




                                                                                                                                                                   6 UNITS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  150.0'

DATA TABLE                                                                                            26.8'                                                                                          6.5'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     12371sqft

                                                                                                     15.0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           51                                                 7200 sqft                   2
LOCATED IN:                               SOUTH JORDAN CITY, SALT LAKE COUNTY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4407 sqft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       6913 sqft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   61                 60            59                58                57             56             55               54                53                  52
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 5397 sqft        4455 sqft       4455 sqft         4455 sqft       4455 sqft        4455 sqft      4455 sqft        4455 sqft         4455 sqft           5853 sqft
ORIGINAL PROPERTY                         35.20 ACRES                                                                                                                         20.0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3465 sqft
RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY                      30.15 ACRES




                                                                                                                 6 UNITS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4
    SINGLE FAMILY AREA                    21.25 ACRES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     49                                                         6583 sqft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3544 sqft




                                                                                                                                                                   5 UNITS
    TOWNHOME AREA                         8.90 ACRES                                                                                                                                                 10.0'

COMMERCIAL PROPERTY                       5.05 ACRES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      48
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   62                 63            64                65                66             67             68               69                70                  71                                       3740 sqft
    COMMERCIAL PADS                       51,048 SF - 59,015 SF                                                                                                                                                  5342 sqft        4410 sqft       4410 sqft         4410 sqft       4410 sqft        4410 sqft      4410 sqft        4410 sqft         4410 sqft           5582 sqft

OPEN SPACE                                X.XX ACRES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  6977 sqft                                             LOT 10
                                                                                                                                                                                                     12.5'                                                                                                                                                                                                               47




                                                                                                                                     28' PRIVATE ALLEY
    USABLE OPEN SPACE                     X.XX ACRES
                                                                                                      15.0'                                                                  15.0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 5509 sqft
    UNUSABLE OPEN SPACE                   X.XX ACRES
    TOWNHOME OPEN SPACE                   X.XX ACRES/XX.X% OF TOTAL TOWNHOME AREA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   50' PUBLIC ROW                                                                                                                                                                                     6
SINGLE FAMILY LOTS                        88                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     7903 sqft

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LOT 11




                                                                                                               5 UNITS
    ESTATE LOTS (1-27)                    27                                                                                                                                 15.0'

    CARRIAGE LOTS (28-51)                 24                                                                                                                                                         16.0'

    COTTAGE LOTS (52-81)                  37                                                                                                                                                                       80                 79               78             77                76             75             74                73                     72                                              46                                                                7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 5397 sqft        4455 sqft       4455 sqft         4455 sqft       4455 sqft        4455 sqft      4455 sqft        4455 sqft               7061 sqft                                       5085 sqft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             7445 sqft
TOWNHOME UNITS                            88




                                                                                                                                                                   5 UNITS
    FRONT-LOAD                            36                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             45
                                                                                                                                                                                                     10.0'
    REAR-LOAD                             52                                                          11.0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3740 sqft


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   44                                                                   8                                                LOT 12




                                                                                                                                                                                              55' PUBLIC ROW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     6983 sqft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3541 sqft
TOTAL RESIDENTIAL UNITS                   176                                                                                                                                 20.0'                                81                 82               83             84                85             86             87                       88
SINGLE FAMILY DENSITY                     4.14UNITS/ACRE                                                                                                                                                         5342 sqft        4410 sqft       4410 sqft         4410 sqft       4410 sqft        4410 sqft      4415 sqft              7990 sqft                                           43
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             3465 sqft
TOWNHOME DENSITY                          9.89UNITS/ACRE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     9
TOTAL RESIDENTIAL DENSITY                 5.84UNITS/ACRE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 42                                                              6369 sqft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3465 sqft




                                                                                                                                                                   6 UNITS
                                                                                                                                                                                                     6.5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   41                                                                                                                                    LOT 13
CITY REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               50' PUBLIC ROW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4407 sqft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               6452 sqft



ZONE                                      PLANNED DEVELOPMENT FLOATING ZONE
CUL-DE-SAC RADIUS                         50'                                                                                                                                                        12.5'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6836 sqft
ROW WIDTH                                 50' - 55'                                                                                                                                                                                        OPEN SPACE PARK                                                                                                            40
TOTAL PUBLIC ROW LENGTH                   ~5,805 LINEAR FT                                                                                                                                                                                                    54061 sqft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.24 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4620 sqft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LOT 14
PRIVATE ALLEY WIDTH                       28'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   39                                                                12
TOTAL ALLEY LENGTH                        ~1,836.8 LINEAR FT                                                                                             5 UNITS                                                                                                                                                                                               3633 sqft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  7483 sqft


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           38
LIST OF AMENITIES                                                                       UNIQUE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3633 sqft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   37
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LOT 15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           8403 sqft
                                                                                       AUTO BODY                                     28' PRIVATE ALLEY                                                                                                                                                                                           5149 sqft
MINIMUM 250 SF PAVILION
BENCHES/PICNIC TABLES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                36
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   6080 sqft
PLAYGROUND AREA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    35
                                                                                                                                                         5 UNITS                                                  28              29          30            31           32             33           34          5511 sqft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              14
SPORTS COURT                                                                                                                                                                                                    4576 sqft 3633 sqft        3633 sqft    3633 sqft     3633 sqft     3633 sqft   3633 sqft                                                                                                                  12402sqft


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PARCEL B
                                                                                                                           16.1'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            59775 sqft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.37 acres                                                 LOT 16
                                                                                    55' PUBLIC ROW


                                                                                                                                                                                     20.0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         20814sqft


                                                                                                              20.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                     15.0'             22                     21                     20                    19                      18                                                                  16
                                                                                                                                                         5 UNITS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    7151 sqft              6200 sqft             6200 sqft               6200 sqft               7335 sqft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   17
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               9884 sqft                           16306sqft                                                                                                                       LOT 25
                                                                                      FUTURE
                                                                                    DEVELOPMENT
                                                                                                                                    28' PRIVATE ALLEY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       23                     24                              25




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           13092 sqft




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Z:\_2018\18-346 South Jordan Boyer Project\design 18-346\dwg\concepts\18-346 Concept O.dwg
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    7200 sqft              6200 sqft
                                                                                                                                                                                             55' PUBLIC ROW




                                                                                                                                                         5 UNITS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LOT 26
                                                                                                                                                                                                                28' PRIVATE ALLEY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                LO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      REVISION BLOCK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         150.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ----

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ----

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ----

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ----

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ----

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ----
                                                                                                                                   40.0'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  26




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               8947 sqft
                                                                                                                                                         5 UNITS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ----

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ----

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ----

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ----

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ----

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ----
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       27
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   10902sqft




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       #

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      5

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          6
                                                                                                                                     28' PRIVATE ALLEY


                                                                                                               16.4'                                                                                 15.0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CONCEPT
GENERAL NOTE:
                                                                                                                                                         5 UNITS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PLAN
   1)         INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS PLAN IS BASED ON THE BEST
              AVAILABLE DATA AT THE TIME OF PREPARATION AND MAY CHANGE AT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Scale:                                         Drawn:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1"=80'                                                        CJG
              ANYTIME FOR ANY REASON. THIS PLAN IS FOR ILLUSTRATIVE PURPOSES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Date:                                          Job #:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4/22/19                                                      18-346
              ONLY.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Sheet:
   2)         RESIDENTIAL AREA ACREAGE EXCLUDES COMMERCIAL AREA BUT
              INCLUDES OPEN SPACE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              O
SUPERHOME
3,747 Finished Square Feet




    Contemporary Front Elevation
    Stone Required: 624 Square Feet
    Stone Provided: 793 Square Feet
                                         First Floor                       Second Floor




           Traditional Front Elevation                 Farmhouse Front Elevation
SUPERHOME
Driveway Feature


2’




                                        Grass or city-aproved
                                        xeriscape.



                   20’
                         * I f the Superhome is located next to
                         another home w i t h a third-car garage,
                         the homes will have a minimum t w o foot
                         wide strip along property line/between
                         driveways.
            2-4-20 CC Meeting - Attachment E




2/10/2020                                      1
2/10/2020   2
2/10/2020   3
