                               SOUTH JORDAN CITY
                                CITY COUNCIL AND
                         REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY MEETING

                                       January 21, 2020

Present:      Mayor Dawn Ramsey, Council Member Brad Marlor, Council Member Jason
              McGuire, Council Member Don Shelton, Council Member Tamara Zander, CM
              Gary Whatcott, Police Chief Jeff Carr, Administrative Services Director Spencer
              Kyle, City Commerce Director Brian Preece, Finance Director Sunil Naidu,
              Strategic Services Director Don Tingey, ACM Dustin Lewis, City Attorney Ryan
              Loose, Battalion Fire Chief Mike Richards, Planning Director Steven
              Schaefermeyer, Engineering Director Brad Klavano, Public Works Director Jason
              Rasmussen, IT Director Jon Day, City Council Secretary MaryAnn Dean

Others:       Attachment A

REGULAR MEETING
COUNCIL CHAMBERS

       A. Welcome and Roll Call – Mayor Dawn Ramsey

Mayor Ramsey welcomed everyone present. She excused Council Member Harris.

       B. Invocation – By City Manager Gary Whatcott

CM Whatcott offered the invocation.

       C. Pledge of Allegiance

Mason Pace, scout, led the audience in the Pledge of Allegiance.

Mayor Ramsey recognized the scouts that were present.

       D. Minute Approval

           D.1. January 7, 2020 Study Meeting
           D.2. January 7, 2020 City Council Meeting

Council Member McGuire made a motion to approve the January 7, 2020 study meeting
minutes and the January 7, 2020 City Council meeting minutes, as printed. Council
Member Marlor seconded the motion. The vote was 4-0 in favor.

       E. Public Comment
South Jordan City                                                                                  2
City Council Meeting
January 21, 2020

Sam Winkler, 11552 Copper Stone Dr., introduced himself and indicated that he is running for
Utah House in District 42. He said he would work hard for future generations. He said he would
like to emulate the City Council’s style of leadership, if elected.

Grant Howarth, 10763 S. Country Creek Cove, expressed appreciation to the City Council for
voting for Freedom of Religion Day. He said he shared the Resolution that was passed with a
friend in Texas, who is going to try to get a similar Resolution passed next year. He noted the
Declaration put out by the governor (Attachment B). He also passed out a pamphlet titled
Religion in the public square (Attachment C). He expressed appreciation for how the city is run.

Mayor Ramsey noted members of the Youth Council that were present.

         F. Mayor and Council Reports

Council Member Shelton said since the last meeting, he met with the Western Growth Coalition
and discussed the Resolution the city passed supporting the Western Growth Coalition to seek
funding for important transportation projects on the west side of Salt Lake County. He said they
are sharing that Resolution with other cities that are part of the Western Growth Coalition.

Council Member Marlor reported on the Architectural Review Committee meeting. He said they
continue to see additional buildings and developments coming to the city. He said he met with
CFO Naidu to understand the budget that they will be working on over the next month or two.

Council Member Zander said she also met with CFO Naidu. It was an informative meeting. She
noted the many hours that the City Council and staff spend on budgets. She noted a recent trip to
Africa and said she hopes the residents appreciate the abundance that we experience. She
reported on a conference that she attended where affordable housing was discussed. She said
they need to watch the legislation that is presented.

Council Member McGuire said he met with a group of scouts. He reviewed the General Plan
with them. He said they requested another skate park. He met with the Arts Council to review the
presentation on tonight’s agenda. He noted the Salt Lake Chamber economic summit that he
attended. He said they discussed their legislative priorities. He said they will continue to see a
push for cities to help provide affordable housing. He said it is important to retain their local
rights to decide how their city grows and how their land is used and managed. He said he also
met with CFO Naidu to discuss the budget.

Council Member Marlor noted that his wife is the current resident artist on display.

Mayor Ramsey reviewed the new assignments she has since the New Year. The Governor
appointed her to the JVWCD Board of Trustees, and it is awaiting Senate confirmation. She
started serving on the IHC Salt Lake Valley Board, and noted the Primary Children’s hospital to
be built in Lehi. She said she is a new member of the Resilient Utah Board of Trustees. She said
she was re-appointed to the Wasatch Front Regional Council Board, representing the Utah
League of Cities and Towns (ULCT), and she is the chair of the Regional Growth Committee.
She said she is now the chair of Salt Lake County Council of Governments, she serves on
South Jordan City                                                                                    3
City Council Meeting
January 21, 2020

EDCU, and the Board of Trustees for the Point of the Mountain State Land Authority. She also
serves on Envision Utah, Jordan River Commission, Uplift Families, and the Jordan District Safe
Schools Advisory committee. She serves on the COG public works committee, and she is the
President Elect of the Jordan Education Foundation. She is the 2nd VP of ULCT.

Mayor Ramsey reported that 96 percent of the cities are complying with the requirements for a
moderate income housing plan as outlined in SB34. The rest of the communities will be in
compliance by the end of the month. She discussed the ULCT legislative priorities. There are
already over 100 bills directed at cities. They are working to advocate for local control of the
cities. She said the Governor is happy with how things are going in South Jordan.

         G. Discussion Item: Arts Council Activities. (By Haley Greene)

Haley Greene, staff over the Arts Council, passed out a memo regarding the Arts Council public
art discussion (Attachment D).

Laura Gaillard, 4487 W. Sebago Way and Heather Smith, 2550 Rustic Roads Dr., members of
the Arts Council, reviewed a prepared presentation (Attachment E). They asked the City Council
for feedback on the public art projects that were proposed. Administrative Services Director Kyle
said there is budget for all of the proposed projects, but they would like feedback if there are
projects they love versus projects that they don’t love.

Council Member Marlor said #4 is an intriguing idea, but asked how long the paint will last? Ms.
Smith said several years. She said most times, the painting is not faded or ruined before it is
painted over. She said that depends on the number of artists that are interested.

Council Member Marlor asked if the city pays for the artists? Ms. Smith said they will pay for
some supplies for the trail painting. She said she anticipates that the Jordan River Trail pathway
art will be redone every 2 years, as it will be asphalted over.

Council Member Zander complimented the Arts Council on the utility box wraps. She said she
likes #2, then #1, and then #3. She said the crosswalk and alleyways are her least favorite
because they are passageways, not destinations.

CM Whatcott asked how do they treat paint on the walls to avoid issues with graffiti. Ms. Smith
said in most cases, the murals don’t have a problem with graffiti because it is viewed as self
expression. If there is graffiti, most of the time it can be removed without ruining art work.

CM Whatcott said at some point, they could add a mural at the tunnel by the lake. It was noted
that there is also a blank wall near Mulligans.

Mayor Ramsey said there might be other plans for the wall at the library. There are other
locations. She said safety at the mural locations needs to be considered.

Council Member McGuire said if the plans for the library are 5-10 years down the road, they can
still do the mural in the meantime.
South Jordan City                                                                                     4
City Council Meeting
January 21, 2020



Council Member Marlor said they could do #4 west of city hall. He said he likes the pathways
and said they could do a number of fun things, like a yellow brick road.

Council Member Shelton said the utility box wraps are his #1. He said they could also do a mural
at the culvert on 4800 West and the Bingham Creek trail.

Council Member McGuire noted that Salt Lake City on 300 North had graffiti problems, but
when they involved West High to do a mural, the graffiti problem went away.

Administrative Services Director Kyle said the Arts Council would prioritize the projects based
on their expertise and the input of the City Council. It was determined that the Arts Council
could determine which projects to move forward with and it would not require further City
Council approval.


Mayor Ramsey gave an update on a trip to the White House in December. She said she shared
her transportation concerns and grants that they can’t qualify for because they are not dense
enough. She said there needs to be provisions and opportunities before a community is totally
built out. She said she was able to present to the transportation secretary, and she was able to
meet with the Vice President.

Council Member Zander made a motion to recess the City Council meeting and move to a
Redevelopment Agency meeting. Council Member McGuire seconded the motion. The vote
was 4-0 in favor.

RECESS CITY COUNCIL AND MOVE TO REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY MEETING (RDA)

         H. RDA Public Hearing: South Jordan Redevelopment Agency Resolution RDA 2020-
            01, Adopting a Housing Down Payment Assistance Program Policy. (By City
            Commerce Director, Brian Preece)

City Commerce Director Preece reviewed the background information on items H. and I.

Chairman Ramsey opened the public hearing for item H. There were no comments. She closed
the public hearing.

Board Member Marlor asked what is the definition of family for this program? He asked if, for
example, a group of 4 unrelated individuals could own a home together?

The Board read the HUD definition of family. They also read the FHA family definition, which
is more strict. Mr. Schaefermeyer read the City Code definition, which is closer to the FHA
definition.

Board Member Zander said the city definition includes 4 unrelated individuals living in a home
that counts as a family. It was noted that it would be unlikely to have 4 individuals on a title of
South Jordan City                                                                                   5
City Council Meeting
January 21, 2020

the home. Mr. Preece concurred; he said that would be more of an issue in a place like Provo
with a University in the town.

Chairman Ramsey said she is in favor of being consistent with the city code and being non
discriminatory. The Board concurred.

Board Member Marlor asked if after the first family sells the home, and if the home is sold to
another qualifying family, would they continue the same program? Mr. Preece said it could
continue in perpetuity as long as the RDA funds the program.

Board Member McGuire made a motion to approve Resolution RDA 2020-01, with the
amendment that they use the family definition in the current city code. Board Member
Shelton seconded the motion.

Board Member Shelton said there is no money coming out of the general fund for this. It is not
coming from sales tax revenue or property taxes. It is the money that the city is required to set
aside for low income housing through the RDA.

Board Member McGuire thanked staff for their work on this issue. He said they need to make
sure all people can find housing in South Jordan, and this program takes them one step forward.

Roll call vote. The vote was 4-0 in favor.

         I. RDA Public Hearing: South Jordan Redevelopment Agency Resolution RDA 2020-
            02, Adopting a Housing Rehabilitation Assistance Program Policy. (By City
            Commerce Director, Brian Preece)

Chairman Ramsey opened the public hearing. There were no comments. She closed the public
hearing.

City Commerce Director Preece noted that this money has to be used in South Jordan.

It was noted that this Resolution needs the same amendment regarding the family definition.

Board Member Zander said as the program moves forward, if things aren’t functioning the way it
was intended, staff can bring the issue back to the Board for review. She said she would like an
annual report on the status of the program.

Board Member Zander made a motion to approve Resolution RDA 2020-02, with the
amendment that the definition of family come from the city code. Board Member Marlor
seconded the motion. Roll call vote. The vote was 4-0 in favor.

ADJOURN RDA MEETING AND RETURN TO CITY COUNCIL MEETING

Board Member Zander made a motion to adjourn the RDA meeting, and return to City
Council meeting. Board Member McGuire seconded the motion. The vote was 4-0 in favor.
South Jordan City                                                                                 6
City Council Meeting
January 21, 2020



         J. Public Hearing: Resolution R2020-08, amending the Mid-Year City Budget for FY
            2019-20. The appropriation authority shall apply to the Fiscal Year Ending June 30,
            2020. (By CFO, Sunil Naidu)

CFO Naidu reviewed the background information on this item. He noted that Council Member
Shelton sent an email with questions, which he responded via email (Attachment F).

Mayor Ramsey opened the public hearing. There were no comments. She closed the public
hearing.

Council Member Shelton said he appreciates CFO Naidu and staff putting together a budget and
making it understandable. Council Member Marlor thanked Mr. Naidu. He has confidence in
how the finances are being handled. Mayor Ramsey concurred.

Mayor Ramsey said every member of the City Council has vetted this issue thoroughly. It took
many hours of work to get to this point.

Council Member Marlor noted that for the original budget hearing, the mid year adjustment
hearing, and the many budget meetings that have been held, there hasn’t been a single comment
or question from a resident.

Council Member McGuire expressed appreciation for the way the budget is presented and well
annotated.

Council Member Shelton made a motion to approve Resolution R2020-08. Council Member
Marlor seconded the motion. Roll call vote. The vote was unanimous in favor.

         K. Public Hearing: Resolution R2020-02, amending the South Jordan City General
            Plan. (By Planning Director, Steven Schaefermeyer)

Planning Director Schaefermeyer reviewed the background information on this item.

Mayor Ramsey opened the public hearing. There were no comments. She closed the public
hearing.

The City Council looked at the future land use map (Attachment G).

Mr. Schaefermeyer said they anticipate small changes to the general plan moving forward and
they will bring those to the City Council for approval.

Council Member Zander asked about some future roads, west of Mountain View Corridor. They
also noted the location of the Bingham Regional Park. They also noted the area designated for
the University of Utah. They also noted future schools sites. They noted the more defined uses in
the Daybreak area with this updated plan.
South Jordan City                                                                                     7
City Council Meeting
January 21, 2020

Council Member Marlor said nowhere in the general plan is there a definition of what low,
medium, and high density residential is.

CM Whatcott said it is defined in the code, but it is not on the map.

Mr. Schaefermeyer said high density does not exist in the zoning codes anymore. It has to be
done through the floating zone, and that hasn’t been done.

Jennifer Gardner, consultant, said most of the stable neighborhood is R-1.8, R-2.5, or R-3. It is
low density, with a few pockets of medium density.

City Commerce Director Preece said when they had a future land use map that showed the
densities, the landowners would hone into the high end number and request to develop that. Not
having specific densities labeled on the plan would help that.

Mr. Schaefermeyer said he spoke with Council Member Harris. Mr. Harris wanted to emphasize
that main corridors are reserved for commercial.

They discussed the mountain bike area planned in the Bingham Creek Regional Park. CM
Whatcott said it is planned to be a skills park. Mr. Tingey said in phase 2, there are some bike
trails planned in undeveloped areas.

Council Member McGuire suggested they include the city’s water conservation master plan as a
reference in the general plan. He said they should add it in the list of goals.

Council Member Marlor said the reason he asked if they should more narrowly define density is
because they are getting legislative pushback for higher density, and he wonders if the City
Council should establish what they believe that is. As they get pushback, they can say it is not in
compliance with the general plan.

Council Member Marlor said in his mind, low density is up to 3 units per acre, medium is 4-6
units per acre, and above that is higher density, from a general plan perspective.

Ms. Gardner said there is a generalized statement about density in the plan.

Council Member Shelton said the way Council Member Marlor defined density is consistent
with the resident survey. He said he would feel comfortable with that definition.

Mayor Ramsey concurred with Council Member Marlor’s definition, and concurred that is how
the residents feel. She said from a legislative standpoint, those numbers are super low. She is
concerned that declaring that definition in the general plan opens the door for potential problems
with the legislature.

City Attorney Loose said it could bring focus or attention to the general plan. He said those
definitions are already in the city code. The code is pretty clear.
South Jordan City                                                                                  8
City Council Meeting
January 21, 2020

Mr. Schaefermeyer said RM-6 is the most dense zone allowed. That is usually done with a pd
overlay or a development agreement. The maximum this City Council has ever approved is 8
units per acre.

City Attorney Loose said because it is in the city code, he does not know why they would want
to bring focus to that unless they are trying to make a statement. Mr. Schaefermeyer said this was
also a topic in the Planning Commission meeting, but there was not enough support to include it
in the plan.

Council Member McGuire said he is not comfortable further defining the density; the code
already does that. Council Member Zander concurred. She said it may not work to their
advantage. Council Member Marlor said he does not personally feel it will draw more attention
than their own ordinance. Council Member Shelton said South Jordan has been accused of not
helping with affordable housing. Mayor Ramsey concurred. She said if people know they
updated their general plan, it will be held up for scrutiny. Council Marlor concurred. He noted
that they have come up with great ideas with their RDA money to help with that situation. City
Attorney Loose concurred that the city ordinance speaks louder than the future land use map, but
if they put it on the map, it is like doubling down on the issue.

Council Member McGuire made a motion to approve Resolution R2020-02 with the
amendment to add the water conservation plan to the goals. Council Member Shelton
seconded the motion.

Jennifer Gardner noted that there are 2 small area plans that will be coming forward in a couple
months.

Roll call vote. The vote was 4-0 in favor.

         L. Public Hearing: Ordinance 2020-03, text amendment to Subsection 16.04.160(D) of
            the South Jordan Municipal Code regarding Flag or Panhandle Lots. (By Planning
            Director, Steven Schaefermeyer)

Planner David Mann reviewed the background information on this item. He reviewed a map of
the property in question (Attachment H).

Cody Pearson, applicant, 10053 S. 3345 W., said they didn’t want a flag lot. In West Jordan,
they had a flag lot. He said being close to his parents at this time in their life is important. He
said they were told by the city that they could put in a second driveway and home. If the city
would have said no, they would not have purchased the property. All of their equity is in this
property. He said they don’t feel it is asking too much to have 2 houses on an acre. He said they
went this route for a text amendment because they didn’t know which other route to go. This still
allows a limitation but opens the door for some flag lots. They were told that they could do this
originally, but they could not make the application until their other property sold. He said they do
not want to change the character of the neighborhood.
South Jordan City                                                                                      9
City Council Meeting
January 21, 2020

Mayor Ramsey opened the public hearing. There were no comments. She closed the public
hearing.

Mr. Mann said there have been 6 other subdivision amendments in this subdivision, but none
were flag lots. With this change, it would allow all of the lots in this subdivision to develop flag
lots. This change would affect the entire city. It was noted that the current density of this
subdivision is R-1.8. Because this subdivision is unique, they developed with much larger lots
and it does allow more of the lots to be developed. The difference with this lot versus the 6
others is that there is not enough frontage, so they have to add a private lane to the second home.
Mr. Mann said one concern is that it would be hard for public safety to locate houses behind
houses.

Council Member McGuire asked if there was a legal way to allow this change, but not open it up
to the entire city. City Attorney Loose said possibly. He said they could table the issue for 2
weeks, and let staff figure out if there is a different way to do this. He said as soon as they do it
for one person, others may ask.

Council Member Marlor noted in East Millcreek, nearly all of the properties in a subdivision he
is familiar with have been redeveloped. They are now putting 4-5 homes on a ¾ acre parcel. He
said he does not love flag lots, but he feels a future City Council will allow the flag lots, or the
legislature will enforce it at some point.

Mr. Schaefermeyer said they brought this to the City Council because they saw a wave of these
flag lots. He said there are other ways to develop this lot, such as a guest house, but that does not
work for the applicants. It’s a difficult situation. He said he is willing to work with City Attorney
Loose to think of other creative ways to develop the lot. It was noted that the applicant’s
neighbor is one to look for and subdivide properties so they fear others will be asking. Mr.
Schaefermeyer said if the Council wants to allow this, he would prefer to reverse the Ordinance
and let staff deal with the flag lot requests. He said flag lots take a lot of staff time.

Council Member Zander said she is sympathetic to these applicants, as they are living on the
property. She said it is different than someone who wants to just subdivide a lot for profit. She
feels they will get requests to subdivide lots if they change the ordinance.

It was noted that the guest house is part of the accessory living ordinance.

Mr. Schaefermeyer said without a formal application, it is hard to know what is possible on this
lot regarding emergency access.

Council Member Marlor said if it is allowed for this lot, others will do the same thing. He feels
they will be legally required to allow it at some point. He said he is okay to table the issue and
have staff come back with options. He said he does not want to make the decision out of
sympathy for one applicant. He said this applicant had verbal approval from staff. That will
likely not be the case for someone else, given the time since the Ordinance has changed.
South Jordan City                                                                                    10
City Council Meeting
January 21, 2020

Council Member Shelton concurred that they will see the day that the allowance of flag lots will
be law.

Mrs. Pearson, applicant, said the verbiage of 125 percent of the zoning means they can only do it
1 time per lot. It puts limitations without completely shutting the door. They estimate less than
half of the properties in their neighborhood could develop a flag lot with this language.

Council Member Marlor said he feels they will get more requests throughout the city because of
the issue of aging parents.

It was noted that the emergency vehicles need 20 ft. of width to access the home. Mrs. Pearson
said they will have to remove some bushes, but will have the 20 ft.

Mr. Schaefermeyer said the Ordinance encourages the sharing of driveways.

It was noted that the noticing requirements for a text amendment are city wide. The surrounding
neighbors were not notified directly for this text amendment.

Council Member Marlor made a motion to table Ordinance 2020-03, and to give staff until
the next City Council meeting to provide some options for this text amendment or lot.
Council Member Zander seconded the motion. The vote was 4-0 in favor.

         M. Staff Reports and Calendaring Items

CM Whatcott said the first budget meeting is Wednesday, January 29th at 5 pm.

City Attorney Loose gave a legislative priorities update. They are working on a bill with
representative Pulsipher and the Wheadon family to protect centennial farms.

Mayor Ramsey said the overarching theme she would like to focus on is the city being held
harmless.

City Attorney Loose said other principles they have discussed is for the city to stay in their lane,
to fight unfunded mandates, and to fight pre-empting the city. He said essentially, they will not
interfere with others, but they will not let them interfere with the city. It was noted that the
relationship with the constituents is on a different level for the city, versus the state level.

City Attorney Loose noted a bill regarding body cameras.

City Attorney Loose said they will be working to set up a meeting with the City Council and
legislators during the session. If they can’t meet during the session, they will meet right after.

City Attorney Loose said they are following affordable housing legislation. They are also
following a bill about penalties for elected officials that violate the law. There are issues some
cities have raised with business licensing and they are watching that. He said they are watching a
South Jordan City                                                                                 11
City Council Meeting
January 21, 2020

number of bills. He said there will not be an update on the sales tax issue until they know how
the referendum comes out.

Council Member Marlor said depending on the referendum, they may unwind the whole bill and
start over. Mayor Ramsey said it took a great deal of work in the current bill to hold cities
harmless. They need to continue to watch that issue.

Mayor Ramsey said the theme of ULCT is respect, collaboration, and outcomes. She said they
need to collaborate.

CM Whatcott addressed an issue with microphones in the City Council chambers.

ADJOURNMENT

Council Member Zander made a motion to adjourn. Council Member McGuire seconded
the motion. The vote was 4-0 in favor.

The January 21, 2020 City Council meeting adjourned at 10:27 p.m.

This is a true and correct copy of the January 21, 2020 City Council Meeting Minutes,
which were approved on February 4, 2020.

South Jordan City Recorder
01-21-20 CC Meeting - Attachment E
WHY IS PUBLIC ART IMPORTANT?

•Community Involvement
•Placemaking and Economic Growth
•Foster Creativity
PUBLIC ART OPTIONS
   Project Name         Location                    Cost
#1 Pathway Art          Jordan River Trail          $75 per design (13 designs)
                                                    Total = $975
#2 Trail Wall Mural     Under 10600 S. Bridge on    No expense – Sponsored by Artist
                        the Jordan River Trail      (Artists will provide supplies)

#3 Professional Mural   Salt Lake County Library    Up to $17,000

#4 Crosswalk Murals     Towne Center Drive          (2) $3,000 per crosswalk
                                                    Total = $6,000
#5 Alleyway Murals      Towne Center Drive          (2) $3,000 per alleyway
                                                    Total = $6,000
#6 Light Pole Banners   SoJo Parkway and 11400 S.   $5,000 ($70 ‐ 130/banner)

    Total Cost                                      $35,000
# 1 PATHWAY ART – JORDAN RIVER TRAIL
# 2 TRAIL WALL MURAL – JORDAN RIVER TRAIL
# 3 PROFESSIONAL MURAL – SLCO LIBRARY
# 4 CROSSWALK MURALS – TOWNE CENTER
# 5 ALLEYWAY MURALS – TOWNE CENTER
# 6 LIGHT POLE BANNERS
                            01-21-20 CC Meeting - Attachment F


Here are a few questions I have from my review of the packet for the meeting tonight. We can review in
the Study Meeting if that works best for you. They are in the order I came across them in my study.

1‐RDA Down payment assistance and rehabilitation assistance. How will we know if a person that has
entered into an agreement with us is renting the home instead of using it as a primary residence.
       Staff will perform simple audit annually. Tax notices and utility bills will reflect whether
owned or rented.

2‐I thought we had a reduction in Sales Tax Revenue. Can you show me where to find that reduction in
our budget?
        We are not adjusting the budget as of mid‐year. My intent is to not make any amendment but
balance with the savings at the end of the fiscal year as we had done last fiscal year. However, we will
keep track of the revenues and if amendment needed, it will be done as of the Final Amended Budget.

3‐Page 1 of the budget, General Fund Summary: How did out charges for service go up by over
$400,000? What is accounted for in Charges for Service?
        This increase in revenues is due to moving Recreation Programs from Fitness Center Budget to
General Fund Budget. This is an accounting (reporting) change in transition to ownership change.

4‐Are we moving all city staff out of the fitness center? I assumed that at least some of them would stay
with the fitness center and become county staff.
        No, we are only moving two staff. 1. The Associate Director of Recreation and 2. Custodian.

5‐Page 13 of the budget: I am curious about the sidewalk inspection machine. What does it do?
        The machine is driven on the side walk. It’s an efficient way to capture hazard and
incorporate into GIS. This become a tool for the side walk maintenance program.


6‐How much money is in the water fund reserve? Wouldn’t we show interest income on page 26 of the
budget?
       Reserve Fund Balance: $10,172,192 ‐ This balance is in the Water General Fund currently
budgeted at $200,000.


7‐Page 28 of the budget. How many employees are there in the sanitation department? Given that we
contract for our curbside pick‐up what do the employees do?
        4 Total employees

        Job Duties:
        1. Deliver/repair/service over 45,000 Garbage/Recycling City Owned cans (year round).
        2. Service neighborhood dumpster program (year round).
        3. Manage recycling program.
8‐Page 28 of the budget shows 24,000 in interest earnings. How much money is in the Sanitation Fund
Reserves?
        Projected Reserve Fund Balance:        $4,585,938

9‐Page 30 of the budget. What projects are being worked on at Mulligan’s right now? How much do we
have in Reserves?

Projects:
        1. Mini golf renovation (budgeted $125,000)
        2. Ball wash shed (budget $15,000)
        3. Parking lot repairs (budgeted $15,000)
        4. Pro shop & Design ($76,529 carried over from last year)
Fund Balance:
        Projected to be approximately $699,698

10‐Page 41 of the budget shows a fee schedule that includes renting space that the city owns. Have we
had any rental income? Does it happen often? Where does that revenue show up in the budget?
So far rented about 5 times. They are mostly rented during afterhours.


Thanks, Gary and Sunil. That’s all I have right now.

Don S.
                FUTURE LAND USE MAP
                                                                                                                                                                                          01-21-20 CC Meeting - Attachment G


                SOUTH JORDAN GENERAL PLAN




                                                                                                                               4800




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3200 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      §
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ¨
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ¦
                                                                                                                                                           Skye Dr
                                                                                                                                                                                                    9800 S                                                           Shields Ln.                                                                      15

            U




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Redwood Road
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2200 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 10000 S        Sego Lily Dr




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Temple Dr /1300W
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Bangerter HWY
                                       l B ingham Hwy
                                      Old
                                                        Mountain View Corridor




                                                                                                                                                                                        South
                                                                                                                                                                                              Jordan Pkwy




                                                                                     Cardinal P                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          10600 S
                                                                                               ar
                                                                                                k
                                                                                                    Rd




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Jordan G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            at e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2700 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                way
                                                                                                                                                                               4000 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               River Front PKW
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                       W
                                                                                                                                                                                                    rH
                                                                                                                                                                                                  te
                                                                                                                                                                                                er
                                                                                                                                                                                               ng
                                                                                                                                                                                             Ba
                                                                                                                                                      ay
                                                                                                                                                  im W
                                                                                                                                                kR
                                                                                                                                              ea
                                                                                                                                         y br
                                                                                                                                      Da
                                                                                            r
                                                                                          do
                                                                                       rri
                                                                                     Co




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             11400 S                                                                                 11400 S
                                                                                                    iew
                                                                                                  nV




                                                                                                                           y
                                                                                               tai




                                                                                                                     P   kw
                                                                                              n




                                                                                                                ak
                                                                                             u
                                                                                           Mo




                                                                                                              re
                                                                                                            yb
                                                                                                          Da
       wy
     sH
 hu
cc




Ba
                                                                                                                                                                     11800 S




                Boundaries and Corridors                                Future Land Use
                       South Jordan Boundary                                     Stable Neighborhood (SN)                                                            Mixed Use (MU)                                                       Industrial (I)

                       Subdivisions                                              Residential Development Opportunity (RD)                                            Mixed Use TOD Opportunity (MUT)                                      Natural ArEA (NA)
                       Future Roads                                              Economic Infill Opportunity (EIO)                                                   Historic (H)                                                         Open Space (OS)

                       Transit Focus Corridor                                    Economic Center (EC)                                                                Agricultural Preservation (AP)                                       Public (P)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ¬
                       Pedestrian/Bike Focus Corridor
01-21-20 CC Mtg - Attachment H
