> Source: (not recorded — see minutes_index.csv)
> Meeting date: 2020-12-08
> Format: ocr

---

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING 
 
TUESDAY, DECEMBER 8, 2020 
 
 
 
20 - 1 
The City Council met in Work Session on Tuesday December 8, 2020, 
in an Electronic Meeting, pursuant to Chair determination Salt 
Lake City Emergency Proclamation No. 2 of 2020(2)(b). 
 
In Attendance: Council Members Andrew Johnston, Amy Fowler, Chris 
Wharton, Daniel Dugan, Darin Mano, and James Rogers. 
 
Staff in Attendance: Cindy Gust-Jenson, Council Executive 
Director; Jennifer Bruno, Council Deputy Director; Erin 
Mendenhall, Mayor; Rachel Otto, Mayor’s Chief of Staff; Katherine 
Lewis, City Attorney; Allison Rowland, Council Public Policy 
Analyst; Nick Tarbet, Council Senior Public Policy Analyst; Mike 
Brown, Police Chief; Lisa Shaffer, Mayor’s Chief Administrative 
Officer; Nick Norris, Planning Director; Blake Thomas, Community 
& Neighborhoods Director; Kira Luke, Council Public Engagement & 
Policy Analyst; Jonathan Larsen, Transportation Director; Julianne 
Sabula, Transportation Transit Program Manager; Amanda Lau, 
Council Public Engagement & Communication Specialist; Benjamin 
Luedtke, Council Policy Analyst; and DeeDee Robinson, Deputy City 
Recorder. 
 
Absent: Councilmember Analia Valdemoros 
 
 Councilmember Wharton presided at and conducted the meeting. 
 
The meeting was called to order at 4:13 p.m. 4:13:02 PM 
 
AGENDA ITEMS 
 
 #1. 4:14:25 PM Informational: Updates from the Administration. 
The Council will receive an update from the Administration on major 
items or projects, including but not limited to: 
• Local Emergencies for COVID-19, the March Earthquake, and the 
September Windstorm; 
• Updates on relieving the condition of people experiencing 
homelessness; 
• Police Department work, projects, and staffing, etc.; and 
• Other projects or updates. 
 
 Mayor Mendenhall thanked the Council for supporting the 
Administration’s efforts regarding the Salt Laker Card (debit card 
assisting those who did not receive stimulus checks), Operation 
Warm (providing 7,000 winter coats for kids in need), Water Assist 
(assisting residents with their water bills), expanding services

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING 
 
TUESDAY, DECEMBER 8, 2020 
 
 
 
20 - 2 
for those experiencing homelessness, and advocating for a Federal 
relief package to provide assistance to small business/residents 
who were struggling as well as assistance from the State for rental 
assistance/small business relief. 
 
 Further information provided included Community Commitment 
Program updates: continuing outreach in areas of larger 
encampments, closing some areas to camping as additional shelter 
resources were becoming available, current capacity of homeless 
resource centers (availability at the Men’s Resource Center, King 
Resource Center, Millcreek Transitional Winter Housing, and motel 
program still having vouchers available), ongoing work with the 
Salt Lake Valley Coalition to End Homelessness to locate a second 
winter shelter location, the City’s A Place for Your Stuff was 
open extended hours for people needing storage while pursuing 
resources, connecting individuals with intake/service assessments, 
shuttle service being available between all Homeless Service 
Centers (HRCs) and the Weigand Homeless Resource Center, COVID-19 
testing available at all HRCs with off-site options for quarantine 
for those who test positive, and the City’s partnership with 
Volunteers of America for a winter gear/coat drive on December 19, 
2020 at the City & County Building. 
 
 Mike Brown briefed the Council regarding the Police 
Department’s recent work project – Less Lethal Shotgun program; 
450 officers having received training to use less lethal shotguns, 
roll-out to occur within the next 30-60 days, 47 shotguns currently 
in inventory with another 42 ordered (with plans to eventually 
outfit the entire department), and details regarding the make-
up/range of each shot. 
 
 Councilmember Johnston inquired as to when this type of 
munition would be deployed. Mr. Brown said they would be used in 
situations when officers had sufficient cover/concealment, or 
enough distance between them and someone with a weapon, and ideally 
in place of lethal munitions in certain situations. 
 
 Rachel Otto and Katherine Lewis provided a Civil Service 
Commission update, including Salt Lake Police Association (SLPA) 
having shared concerns about discussions held between the 
Administration and Council (regarding policy & procedure) and the 
City being committed to resolving as many concerns as possible, 
Policy & Procedures regarding recruitment retention and 
recruitment of hearing officers were currently being drafted and 
would be shared with all three unions for feedback/input before

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING 
 
TUESDAY, DECEMBER 8, 2020 
 
 
 
20 - 3 
finalization, and responses to SLCPA issues provided (emailed) to 
the Council this afternoon. 
 
 #2. 4:36:49 PM Informational: Updates on Racial Equity and 
Policing. The Council will hold a discussion about recent efforts 
on various projects City staff are working on related to racial 
equity and policing in the City. The conversation may include 
issues of community concern about race, equity, and justice in 
relation to law enforcement policies, procedures, budget, and 
ordinances. Discussion may include: 
 • An update or report on the newly created Commission on 
 Racial Equity in Policing; 
 • Follow-up on Police Civilian Review Board (known as the 
 CRB or PCRB) Ordinance Amendments and Legislative 
 Intents; and 
 • Other project updates or discussion. View Attachments 
 
Allison Rowland, Katherine Lewis, and Kira Luke briefed the 
Council regarding: 
• “Action Report: Racial Equity” included information regarding 
body-worn cameras, changes to the Police Civilian Review Board 
(CRB), Police Budget audit scope (informing the zero based 
budget exercise), repeal of the Civil Service Commission 
ordinance – providing the City more opportunities for an 
inclusive hiring process/lowering barriers for new employees to 
bring more diverse approaches, experiences, and ideas 
• Updates on the Racial Equity in Policing (REP) Commission, 
including: commission currently meeting Wednesdays in sub-
committees through the end of the year and available for the 
public to listen to at slc.gov/boards/REPAgenda, no meetings 
were scheduled for December 23 and December 30, 2020, an REP 
public listening session was planned for January 13, 2021, and 
contact information for questions regarding REP was provided 
(email repcommission@slcgov.com or call 801-535-7644). 
• Clarifications provided on Item 2 - those with criminal records 
being able to serve on the CRB, and Item 3 - ensuring that all 
panels include at least a majority of Board Members, rather than 
the minimum of three currently permitted (located on the 
summary report included in the attachment). 
 
Straw Poll: Support for a panel of five Board Members (CRB) 
to review a complaint unless it was an officer involved critical 
incident (non-OICI cases only). Council Members Dugan, Fowler, 
Mano, Rogers, and Wharton were in favor, Councilmember Johnston

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING 
 
TUESDAY, DECEMBER 8, 2020 
 
 
 
20 - 4 
was opposed, and Councilmember Valdemoros was absent for the vote. 
 
 #3. 5:04:07 PM Ordinance: Fleet Block Zoning Amendments (300 
and 400 West and between 800 and 900 South) Follow-up Briefing. 
The Council will receive a follow-up briefing about a proposal to 
create a new land use zone titled Form-Based Urban Neighborhood 3 
(FB-UN3) and rezone the 10-acre City block known as the Fleet Block 
(located between 300 and 400 West and between 800 and 900 South) 
from Public Land (PL) and General Commercial (CG) to FB-UN3. The 
area was previously used by the City for a fleet maintenance 
facility that has since been relocated. Form-Based code focuses on 
the form and appearance of buildings. It also has more regulations 
that control those aspects of development than traditional zones. 
The proposal would apply regulations to future developments such 
as building design, height, bulk, use, and other development 
standards and land uses. The regulations are intended to support 
the block’s redevelopment. In addition to the zoning amendments, 
the Council will also hear updates from City departments about the 
work they have done related to the redevelopment of this City-
owned property. View Attachments 
 
 Mayor Mendenhall provided an introduction to the item and 
said community feedback was received regarding the Fleet Block 
murals and future of the block, the City’s vision for the Fleet 
Block reflected benefits to the community as well as the needs of 
future generations of Salt Lake City residents, the vision 
included: creation of a space that benefitted residents and 
reflected the community’s diversity, open space for gathering that 
created equitable access to opportunities by design/occupation, 
providing additional affordable housing, and expansion of public 
transportation, access, and more. She requested the Salt Lake 
community continue to communicate their needs and continue 
conversations regarding the Fleet Block to move forward together 
with the feedback/needs reflected. 
 
 Blake Thomas thanked community members for sharing their 
stories with the Community & Neighborhoods (CAN) team and input 
was necessary (from the public) for elements of the public space 
on the block to provide equity/inclusion. 
 
 Nick Tarbet provided an introduction and background on the 
proposal and noted the goal of the briefing included three main 
components: review list of potential motions and potential 
conditions to be included in the motions for the Council to 
consider, review the Administration’s responses to the October 6,

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING 
 
TUESDAY, DECEMBER 8, 2020 
 
 
 
20 - 5 
2020 Work Session briefing (questions raised by Council Members), 
and review additional policy questions noted in the Staff memo. 
 
 Nick Norris indicated that the Administration’s responses to 
the Council’s questions included gathering feedback from various 
stakeholders involved in the process, outlining items of 
concern/need, and identifying what the critical/necessary pieces 
of the Fleet Block were to demonstrate the community/stakeholders 
ideas/concerns were heard. 
 
 Further discussion was held regarding a previous Urban 
Feasibility Study conducted for the area (2018/2019), 
differences/definitions of parks/public open 
space/squares/plazas, and parking considerations and public 
transportation options in the area. 
 
 Councilmember Wharton said he was interested in exploring a 
public art component to ongoing discussions regarding the Fleet 
Block. 
 
 Straw Poll: Support for language regarding the effective date 
based on the criteria of public engagement (making the zoning 
effective based on the public engagement process). Council Members 
Mano, Rogers, Wharton, Fowler, Johnston, and Dugan were in favor 
with Councilmember Valdemoros absent for the vote. 
 
 #4. 5:45:20 PM Resolution: Funding Our Future: Transit Master 
Plan Implementation Interlocal Agreement with the Utah Transit 
Authority (UTA). The Council will be briefed about a resolution 
that would authorize the Mayor to enter into two proposed 
adjustments to an interlocal agreement (ILA) with UTA. Amendment 
to Addendum No. 2 provides accounting adjustments and credits to 
the City for cost savings from COVID-19 related bus service 
reductions, reaching service thresholds, and actual fuel costs. 
Addendum No. 3 is the service agreement from August 2020 to August 
2021 for the Frequent Transit Service (FTN) routes on 200 South, 
900 South, and 2100 South streets. The ILA is a twenty-year 
agreement with a goal of full implementation of the Frequent 
Transit Network as described in the City’s Transit Master Plan. 
View Attachments 
 
 Kira Luke, Jonathan Larsen, and Julianne Sabula provided a 
summary of the attached proposal. Discussion was held regarding 
two addenda to the ILA (No. 2 & 3), true-ups and credits, cost 
projection refinements (2020-2021), and timeline impacts due to

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING 
 
TUESDAY, DECEMBER 8, 2020 
 
 
 
20 - 6 
COVID-19. 
 
 Straw Poll: Support for the approval of the addenda (2 & 3) 
with the expectation that Transportation return with more 
specifications at a later date. Council Members Mano, Rogers, 
Wharton, Fowler, Johnston, and Dugan were in favor, with 
Councilmember Valdemoros absent for the vote. 
 
 #5. 6:04:57 PM Board Appointment: Housing Advisory and Appeals 
Board – Katie Sims (formerly Fredrickson). The Council will 
interview Katie Sims (formerly Fredrickson) prior to considering 
appointment to the Housing Advisory and Appeals Board for a term 
ending December 31, 2024. View Attachments 
 
Interview was held. Councilmember Wharton said Katie Sims’ 
name was on the Consent Agenda for formal consideration. 
 
Katherine Lewis took a moment of personal privilege and said 
she was pleased that Ms. Sims was returning to the City in any 
capacity. 
 
#6. 6:08:04 PM Board Appointment: Housing Advisory and Appeals 
Board – Carrie Eschler. The Council will interview Carrie Eschler 
prior to considering appointment to the Housing Advisory and 
Appeals Board for a term ending December 31, 2024. View Attachments 
 
Interview was held. Councilmember Wharton said Carrie 
Eschler’s name was on the Consent Agenda for formal consideration. 
 
#7. 6:10:24 PM Board Appointment: Housing Advisory and Appeals 
Board – Sara Hart. The Council will interview Sara Hart prior to 
considering appointment to the Housing Advisory and Appeals Board 
for a term ending December 31, 2024. View Attachments 
 
 Interview was held. Councilmember Wharton said Sara Hart’s 
name was on the Consent Agenda for formal consideration. 
 
STANDING ITEMS 
 
 #8. Report of the Chair and Vice Chair 
 
 No discussion was held.

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING 
 
TUESDAY, DECEMBER 8, 2020 
 
 
 
20 - 7 
 #9. 6:13:13 PM Report and Announcements from the Executive 
Director. Report of the Executive Director, including a review of 
Council information items and announcements. The Council may give 
feedback or staff direction on any item related to City Council 
business, including but not limited to: 
• Approval of the 2021 Annual Meeting Calendar; and 
• Scheduling items. 
 
 See File M 20-5 for announcements. 
 
 #10. Tentative Closed Session. The Council will consider a 
motion to enter into Closed Session for any specific purpose under 
Section 52-4-205. 
 
 Item not held. 
 
 The meeting adjourned at 6:16 p.m. 
 
 Minutes Approved: July 13, 2021. 
 
 
_______________________________ 
COUNCIL CHAIR 
 
 
_______________________________ 
CITY RECORDER 
 
 This document is not intended to serve as a full transcript 
as other items may have been discussed; please refer to the audio 
or video for entire content pursuant to Utah Code §52-4-203(2)(b). 
 
 This document along with the digital recording constitute the 
official minutes of the City Council Work Session meeting held 
December 8, 2020. 
 
dr 
Chris Wharton (Jul 20, 2021 17:39 MDT)
Cindy Trishman (Jul 20, 2021 19:56 MDT)

12-8-2020 WS Minutes - Approved July 13,
2021 Formal Meeting
Final Audit Report 2021-07-21
Created:2021-07-20
By:DeeDee Robinson (deedee.robinson@slcgov.com)
Status:Signed
Transaction ID:CBJCHBCAABAAXCyQSJISOsMiGKMpCoRSC965laX2bSdP
"12-8-2020 WS Minutes - Approved July 13, 2021 Formal Meetin
g" History
Document created by DeeDee Robinson (deedee.robinson@slcgov.com)
2021-07-20 - 10:33:55 PM GMT- IP address: 204.124.13.222
Document emailed to Chris Wharton (chris.wharton@slcgov.com) for signature
2021-07-20 - 10:35:14 PM GMT
Email viewed by Chris Wharton (chris.wharton@slcgov.com)
2021-07-20 - 11:39:43 PM GMT- IP address: 204.124.13.151
Document e-signed by Chris Wharton (chris.wharton@slcgov.com)
Signature Date: 2021-07-20 - 11:39:50 PM GMT - Time Source: server- IP address: 204.124.13.151
Document emailed to Cindy Trishman (cindy.trishman@slcgov.com) for signature
2021-07-20 - 11:39:51 PM GMT
Document e-signed by Cindy Trishman (cindy.trishman@slcgov.com)
Signature Date: 2021-07-21 - 1:56:45 AM GMT - Time Source: server- IP address: 204.124.13.151
Agreement completed.
2021-07-21 - 1:56:45 AM GMT
