> Source: (not recorded — see minutes_index.csv)
> Meeting date: 2020-12-11
> Format: ocr

---

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL SPECIAL LIMITED FORMAL MEETING FRIDAY, DECEMBER 11, 2020 
 
 20 - 1 
The City Council of Salt Lake City, Utah, met in an electronic Special 
Limited Formal Session on Friday, December 11, 2020 pursuant to the 
Chair’s determination and Salt Lake City Emergency Proclamation No. 2 of 
2020 (2)(b). 
 
 The following Council Members were in virtual attendance: 
 
Chris Wharton James Rogers Andrew Johnston 
Daniel Dugan Darin Mano Amy Fowler 
Analia Valdemoros 
 
Cindy Gust-Jenson, Council Executive Director; Jennifer Bruno, 
Council Executive Deputy Director; Rachel Otto, Mayor’s Chief of Staff; 
Katherine Lewis, City Attorney; Benjamin Luedtke, Council Policy 
Analyst; Blake Thomas, Community & Neighborhood Department Director; Dan 
Rip, HAND Policy & Program Manager; David Litvack, Mayor’s Senior 
Advisor; Elizabeth Buehler, Civic Engagement Manager; Jennifer McGrath, 
Community & Neighborhood Deputy Director; Joel Paterson, Planning 
Programs Supervisor; JP Goates, HAND Policy & Program Manager; Lehua 
Weaver, Council Associate Deputy Director; Lindsey Nikola, Mayor’s 
Communications Director; Lisa Shaffer, Chief Administrative Officer; 
Lorna Vogt, Public Services Director; Michelle Hoon, Homeless Services 
Project Manager; Mike Brown, Chief of Police; Nick Tarbet, Council Senior 
Public Policy Analyst; Olga Crump, Real Property Agent; Paul Nielson, 
Senior City Attorney; Russell Weeks, Council Senior Advisor; Samuel Owen, 
Council Public Policy Analyst; Shellie Finan, Real Property Manager; 
Tracey Fletcher, Assistant to the Council Executive Director; Amanda 
Lau, Council Public Engagement/Communications Specialist; and Cindy Lou 
Trishman, City Recorder were also in virtual attendance. 
 
 The meeting was called to order at 2:38 p.m. 
 A. OPENING CEREMONY 
 #1. 2:38:00 PM Councilmember Wharton conducted the formal meeting. B. PUBLIC HEARINGS 
 
 None. 
 C. POTENTIAL ACTION ITEMS 
 
 None. 
 D. COMMENTS 
 
 None.

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL SPECIAL LIMITED FORMAL MEETING FRIDAY, DECEMBER 11, 2020 
 
 20 - 2 
E. NEW BUSINESS 
 
 #1. 2:38:51 PM Ordinance: Temporary Zoning Regulations Authorizing Temporary Overflow Homeless Shelter Use at approximately 2333 West North Temple 
The Council will consider adopting an ordinance enacting a temporary 
land use regulation to allow a temporary overflow homeless shelter at 
approximately 2333 West North Temple. View Attachment 
 
Councilmember Johnston moved and Councilmember Fowler seconded to adopt Ordinance 61 of 2020, enacting a temporary zoning regulation authorizing an overflow homeless shelter use at approximately 2333 West North Temple. 
 
Councilmember Valdemoros asked for clarification regarding the 
length of the temporary regulation. Katherine Lewis said temporary 
regulations were typically valid for up to six months. She said this one 
was scheduled to expire on April 15, 2021. 
 
Councilmember Wharton called for the question, which motion 
carried, all members voted aye (roll call). 
 
 Council Members Valdemoros, Johnston, Rogers, and Wharton took a 
moment of personal privilege to comment on the proposal. 
 
Councilmember Valdemoros (summary of comments): Councilmember 
Valdemoros stated the Council was again considering approval of an 
emergency shelter at the 11th hour (despite efforts to find solutions 
throughout the year), and there was hope the Council would not be having 
this same conversation as Salt Lake City (SLC) has participated in above 
and beyond measures. She expressed gratitude to Millcreek Mayor 
Silvestrini for his efforts/leadership in hosting a winter shelter and 
appreciation for those joining the effort and utilizing opportunities to 
help people struggling with mental health issues, drug addiction, living 
in encampments, etc., and it was now a moral obligation to provide 
shelter and keep individuals from freezing. Councilmember Valdemoros 
encouraged community leaders and residents to be engaged in compassionate 
service and for leaders to help carry the burden of hosting emergency 
facilities and provide resources needed to address issues contributing 
to chronic homelessness. She stated that homelessness was not only an 
issue for SLC and the ongoing requests for State leadership, neighboring 
cities and counties to get involved in the efforts will address the 
humanitarian crisis. 
 
 Councilmember Johnston provided a written statement (summary of 
comments): Councilmember Johnston expressed gratitude to the Mayor, the 
Council and Staff for supporting the ordinance, gratitude to Millcreek,

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL SPECIAL LIMITED FORMAL MEETING FRIDAY, DECEMBER 11, 2020 
 
 20 - 3 
Midvale, and South Salt Lake for hosting homeless resource facilities, 
sharing that community members often blame the City for causing and/or 
not fixing the issues while overflow shelters remain desperately needed. 
Councilmember Johnston expressed anger and frustration to the blatant 
inequity being highlighted by the situation. He continued that with the 
temporary shelter being located between two of the lowest areas of 
opportunity in the City, where a devastating impact of COVID-19 already 
existed in the communities and neighborhoods, and the continued 
healthcare disparities between the poor and affluent communities the 
westside neighborhoods continue as an economical and socially 
marginalized area with persistent discrimination. Councilmember Johnston 
stated that SLC does not have enough resources for the County’s 
unsheltered residents and was currently hosting 7 of 10 homeless service 
sites (all effectively located west of State Street) and the City remains 
responsible to make the unconscionable choice between standing up for 
neighborhoods or letting people freeze on City streets. Councilmember 
Johnston concluded that the City’s continued willingness to address the 
difficult and unfair situations was evident and it was well past time 
for other leaders to do the same. 
 
Councilmember Rogers (summary of comments): Councilmember Rogers 
shared that the proposal impacts Districts 1 and 2 equally (westside 
being impacted by new prison, Inland Port development, homeless issues, 
etc.) and the Council continuing to clean-up a situation created by 
circumstances not created by the efforts of the City. He continued that 
with increasing problems along North Temple, the shelter opening, 
decreasing revenues impacting police and response times, the City’s 
westside was continually impacted by outside issues. Councilmember 
Rogers shared that the current Council has been the most outspoken about 
the creation of westside opportunities, and the necessary discussions to 
actively stop the ongoing burdens being placed on the westside. 
Councilmember Rogers added that with the upcoming budget season the 
Council will need to seriously discuss funding and find creative ways to 
address the issues which are continually being concentrated on the 
westside. 
 
Councilmember Wharton (summary of comments): Councilmember Wharton 
stated that the ordinance was not fair or aligned with the desires of 
the community - safer streets, parks, trails, equitable housing, support 
for small business, Grande Boulevard, etc., and discussion regarding 
funding to mitigate impacts and resident expectations must occur. He 
included that the proposal was not fair to SLC and particularly to the 
traditionally underserved westside communities who were expected to 
continue to shoulder the burden of a Statewide crisis. Councilmember 
Wharton included that the City faces the need to act to prevent people 
from freezing to death, but also needs the State and other Wasatch Front 
municipalities to engage in the humanitarian effort. Councilmember

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL SPECIAL LIMITED FORMAL MEETING FRIDAY, DECEMBER 11, 2020 
 
 20 - 4 
Wharton said he would continue to meet with North Temple residents, along 
with others, to try and help the community understand why the Council 
made this decision. (O 20-22) 
 F. UNFINISHED BUSINESS 
 
 None. 
 G. CONSENT 
 
 None. 
 
The meeting adjourned at 2:59 p.m. 
 
Minutes were approved on Tuesday, January 19, 2021 
 
 
 
______________________________ 
Council Chair 
 
 
______________________________ 
City Recorder 
 
 
This document is not intended to serve as a full transcript as 
additional discussion may have been held; please refer to the audio or 
video for entire content pursuant to Utah Code §52-4-203(2)(b). 
 
This document along with the digital recording constitute the 
official minutes of the Salt Lake City Special Limited Formal Session 
held December 11, 2020. 
 
clt 
 
Chris Wharton (Jan 26, 2021 22:13 MST)
Cindy Trishman (Jan 26, 2021 22:51 MST)

Please sign: December 11, Special Formal
Meeting
Final Audit Report 2021-01-27
Created:2021-01-22
By:Cindy Trishman (cindy.trishman@slcgov.com)
Status:Signed
Transaction ID:CBJCHBCAABAAcnep6JEH9wDsksScjttHtuLI84-502D7
"Please sign: December 11, Special Formal Meeting" History
Document created by Cindy Trishman (cindy.trishman@slcgov.com)
2021-01-22 - 7:54:25 PM GMT- IP address: 204.124.13.151
Document emailed to Chris Wharton (chris.wharton@slcgov.com) for signature
2021-01-22 - 8:05:24 PM GMT
Email viewed by Chris Wharton (chris.wharton@slcgov.com)
2021-01-27 - 5:13:15 AM GMT- IP address: 73.63.28.254
Document e-signed by Chris Wharton (chris.wharton@slcgov.com)
Signature Date: 2021-01-27 - 5:13:23 AM GMT - Time Source: server- IP address: 73.63.28.254
Document emailed to Cindy Trishman (cindy.trishman@slcgov.com) for signature
2021-01-27 - 5:13:24 AM GMT
Document e-signed by Cindy Trishman (cindy.trishman@slcgov.com)
Signature Date: 2021-01-27 - 5:51:43 AM GMT - Time Source: server- IP address: 204.124.13.222
Agreement completed.
2021-01-27 - 5:51:43 AM GMT
