                                      Orem city
Who is filling out this report?
Grant Allen
Senior Planner
grallen@orem.gov
801-229-7095

Provide the following information for your moderate-income housing element:


Link to adoption resolution or ordinance:
Uploaded as attachment


Link to general plan, moderate income housing element:
Uploaded as attachment,

You will not be able to go back in the survey after making this selection. Please make
sure you have entered all information up to this point. TYPE OF REPORT Please choose
from the following options. Nearly all communities are in year 2-5 of their reporting.
We are in YEAR 2-5 of reporting on the implementation plan tasks and timelines we reported on
last year.




                                                                                          595
We are in YEAR 2-5 of reporting on the implementation plan
tasks and timelines we reported on last year.

2-5 YEAR REPORTING The following section is for communities in YEARS 2-5 of reporting. If
the implementation plan has been updated or amended, progress made must be documented in
this section of the report. You will enter the following information in this section: 1) Shapefiles
and data related to zoning, entitled units, and accessory dwelling units (ADUs) 2) Your
community's MIH strategies (including changes to strategies - if applicable) 3) Feedback and
recommendation regarding the MIH program


ZONING MAP
Zoning Data Statute requires that counties and municipalities provide their current zoning map.
This document should reflect current adopted ordinances.
Please be aware that zoning data submitted will be shared with the Utah Geospatial
Resource Center.


Shapefiles (.shp) must be uploaded using this link. After uploading the file, please type
"Uploaded" in the field below. If a shapefile is not available, please provide a link to maps
and tables in the field below. If you have any questions, please contact mih@utah.gov.
https://maps.viewprogis.com/ecp/orem-ut;
https://maps.orem.gov/whereilive/?_gl=1*1kide83*_ga*MTYxOTA0MTI3MC4xNzM2MTc3Mzc3*
_ga_1G5ML6CSG3*czE3NTQwNzU0MjYkbzE0OCRnMSR0MTc1NDA3NTQ2OSRqMTckbDAk
aDA.; https://online.encodeplus.com/regs/orem-ut/doc-viewer.aspx?secid=1980#secid-1846

When did the last zoning map or text amendment occur?
25- May

ENTITLED UNITS The following questions ask about entitled units. Entitled units are units that
are legally allowed to be built under current zoning, existing development agreement, or other
legal mechanism, (e.g., overlay zone). This data is collected to capture current built or zoned
conditions. Please report entitled unit data as of May 1, 2025. Do not include any parcels or
units that are only planned or in the process of being rezoned as residential. Example: if a
parcel is zoned greenbelt on May 1, 2025 and a rezone application is in process, do not count it
in this data. If some parcels can’t be developed due to barriers like geography, setbacks, or
lack of infrastructure, you can explain these issues in the barriers or narrative sections of your
report.


Provide a count of entitled residential units (as defined above) that have NOT received a
building permit.
159




                                                                                                596
Less the units, parcels, lots, or developments reported in the previous question, provide
a count of vacant parcels, lots, or developments that include an overlay zone and the
number of residential units that could be built on said parcel, lot, or development that
have NOT pulled a building permit.

Less the units parcels, lots, or developments reported in the previous two questions,
provide a count of vacant parcels, lots, or developments that are currently zoned
residential (single family, townhome, multi family, etc) and the number of residential units
that could be built on said parcel, lot, or development that have NOT pulled a building
permit.

From the counts reported above, provide a count of the entitled residential units which
have received will serve letters from utilities or an equivalent that shows that all utilities
and infrastructure (i.e. roads, water, sewer, power, phone, gas) are complete for the units,
parcels, or lots.


Describe any barriers to developing these units that have been experienced. These
barriers could include infrastructure, public concerns, geographic constraints, etc.
Providing detail here allows us to share the experiences and needs of communities to
support the data reported above.

Provide any notes or explanations for the data entered above (e.g., upcoming
developments, clarifying data, context, etc.).


ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS

The following questions ask about the number of Accessory Dwelling Units (internal, external,
detached) in your county or municipality as of the report submission date.


How does the county or municipality track known "for-rent" Accessory Dwelling Units?
(select one)
Count of building permits issued

Total known number of Accessory Dwelling Units recorded as of the report submission
date:
829
Total number of building permits issued to construct an ADU in the county or
municipality granted between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025:
36




                                                                                               597
Total number of business licenses or permits to rent an ADU issued in the county or
municipality granted between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025:
4,200 Landlord Licenses


Total number of other types of permits or license issued for an ADU in the county or
municipality granted between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025 (if applicable, please
provide the count and type of permit or license issued)
n/a




                                                                                       598
REPORTING ON STRATEGY PROGRESS
The following questions ask you to provide detailed progress on the moderate-income housing
strategies between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025. A county or municipality must report on
at least the minimum strategy requirements to comply in the subsequent report.

1. Select a moderate income housing strategy from Utah Code that the county or
municipality has included in its moderate-income housing element. (For the list of
strategies, visit jobs.utah.gov/mihreporting or refer to Utah Code Section 10-9a-403 for
municipalities and Section 17-27a-403 for counties)
E
W
X
U
L

2. Reference the Implementation Plan for this strategy and list the timelines and
benchmarks that were planned to be complete between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025.
You may include actions taken before the 12-month reporting period in this report as an
ongoing action if it: i) clearly supports the moderate income housing strategy from the
initial report (e.g., previously adopted ordinance, approved a land use application, made an
investment, or approved an agreement or financing); ii) the new report shows the action is
still helpful to making progress on the strategy.
E
UCA 10-9a-403(2)biii (E) create or allow for, and reduce regulations related to, internal or
detached accessory dwelling units in residential zones;” Accessory apartments are already
adopted into Orem’s municipal code and part of the Development Services process. In 2021,
Orem City updated its accessory apartment code text, to match the state law. Orem City
continues to provide all requirements for legal accessory apartments on our website.
Requirements are outlined in our code in section 22-6-9(I). The requirements form is
http://orem.org/wp-content/uploads/2021/05/Acc-apt-informationamendedApril-2021.pdf, and is
found on the city website with the list of all forms, applications, & checklists applicants might
need; https://orem.org/forms-applications/. We also continue to advise residents who ask about
their options throughout the year as we receive calls and in-person questions. Annually, Orem
monitors the number of legal apartments in an annual report of new and existingaccessory
apartments. Currently, there are 722 legal accessory apartments in Orem. It is anticipated that
approximately 26 additional accessory units will be approved in 2023. The list of legal accessory
apartments within the city is found on our website at https://orem.org/accessory-apartments/. To
ensure the safety and welfare of residents, Oremutilizes code enforcement services to ensure
noncomplying units come into compliance with city code. In 2020, Orem City enacted an
ordinance requiring landlord licensing for all rentalproperties. As of December 2022, there were
3,924 active landlord licensing accounts.We anticipate using this data to further map existing
rentals and housing for future analysis.Orem’s Neighborhood Improvement Team, is helping
track illegal accessory apartments and helping educate property owners on bringing them into
compliance.The Code Enforcement team reviews cases weekly of illegal accessory apartments
and follows Orem Code Sections, 11-1-3(B)(31)A, 11-1-3(B)(30), and 11-1- 3(B)31 and policies



                                                                                              599
for bringing them into compliance. Orem Code Enforcement along with Orem
DevelopmentServices will implement a broad communications campaign citywide to help
residents understand the requirements of accessory apartments. This will firstbegin by using
existing newsletters the City sends out to residents and landlords. Orem is projecting and
implementing this broad communications campaignstarting the second quarter of 2023 after
evaluating the specifics of frequency and audiences in the fourth quarter of 2023.

W
Orem plans to continue to educate additional developers on regulations for developing in the
Affordable Senior Housing Overlay (ASH) zone by developing an outreach and communication
plan in 2023 to highlight the ASH zone. This plan will include targeted outreach to existing
landlords and property owners within the ASH zone boundary. Orem has partnered with Utah
County Housing Authority for projects in the ASH zone, so the outreach plan will also include
targeted communication with Utah County Housing Authority and other affordable housing
developers.Additionally, the City of Orem plans to undergo an update to an existing 2018
Moderate Income Housing study in 2023. During this study, we intend to examine the demand
and need for more income-restricted units for seniors in the city. Along with examining the
demand for income-restricted units, we intend to study the feasibility of expanding the existing
zone boundaries or implementing other ASH overlays in other parts of the city. At this time,
Orem anticipates the study beginning mid-year 2023 and the updated study be completed in
2024. Zoning recommendations resulting from the study would be anticipated to be explored
and presented to the City Council in 2024. The ASH overlay zone allows up to four units to be
constructed on a single parcel. The tenant of each unit is restricted to those over the age of 60
and at or less than 80% of the median income of the Orem/Provo MSA.Since the ASH zone has
been adopted, there are 5 projects (five structures) that have been built and maintained for
affordable senior housing. The owners of those projects must submit an annual report to the city
to assure rents, age of tenants, and income restriction of tenants are compliant with code.

X
Implementation: A developer has approached the City and has met with Staff, the Mayor and
members of the council as to the feasibility of an HTRZ Zone. The next step in this process is
for the Developer to hire a consultant for a study of the HTRZ estimated to take 6-8 months. In
2023, following the study, the Developer, Consultant and City will consider the next steps as
required from the HTRZ Act.
U
In accordance with Utah Code Annotated (UCA) 10-9a-403.1, Orem City has outlined Station
Area Plans for the transit stations in Orem into two phases: Phase 1 will begin with the revision
and update of the existing station area plan for the Orem Frontrunner Station. Phase 2 will
create a station area plan for the Lakeview, Main Street and University Place Bus Rapid Transit
(BRT) stations. These plans will consider elements as outlined in 10-9a-403.1(7)(b)(i) such as
housing types that will (B) providing for densities necessary to facilitate the development of
moderate income housing; and (C) providing for affordable costs of living in connection with
housing, transportation, and parking. Orem City will encourage the consideration of owner
occupied twin home developments. Staff has applied for technical assistance and is in the




                                                                                               600
beginning stages of this process for Phase 1 of the Station Area Plans. The early estimated
timelime for the Station Area Plans is Phase 1 to be completed in 2023, and Phase 2 late 2024
early 2025.

L
In 2022, Orem City eliminated impact fees for internal accessory dwelling units in accordance
with State law. Orem will consider reducing or waiving impact fees for developments in the
Affordable Senior Housing (ASH) Overlay Zone. Staff will research existing developments in the
ASH zone during the first quarter 2023. Staff will prepare a fiscal impact study which will
determine how much impact fees have been paid from prior developments in the ASH zone and
the impact of reducing or waiving future ASH development impact fees. This study will be
prepared for discussion with the City Council during the second/third quarter of 2023 and
anticipates presenting the results of the study to the City Council during the fourth quarter of
2023.




3. Describe each action taken between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025 to implement the
tasks listed in Question 2. Include how the actions taken support implementation of the
strategy.
E
In January of 2025, the City updated its website from .org to .gov. This provided an opportunity
to update the accessory apartment information through the requirements page:
https://orem.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/01/Acc-apt-information-amended-Sep-2022-1.pdf as
well as https://orem.gov/forms-applications/, as well at https://www.orem.gov/accessory-
apartments. Staff is continuing to review updates to this page for ease of access to information
and simplifying the process for residents. While already included in the report, Staff includes
these numbers here as well for complete accessory apartment data summary. Annually, Orem
monitors the number of legal apartments in an annual report of new and existing accessory
apartments. Currently, there are 829 legal accessory apartments in Orem. It is anticipated that
approximately 31 additional accessory units will be approved in 2025 based off of an average of
the approvals over the years of tracking under SB34 and HB462. The list of legal accessory
apartments within the city is found on our website at https://orem.gov/accessory-apartments/. To
ensure the safety and welfare of residents, Oremutilizes code enforcement services to ensure
noncomplying units come into compliance with city code. Since 2020, Orem has required
landlord licensing for all rental properties. As of the July 30, 2025, there are 4,200 active
landlord licensing accounts . Staff is in process with utilizing this and other data to further map
existing rentals and housing as part of the current general plan update. In February of 2025,
Staff began an update to the General Plan in coordination with the City Council and Planning
Commission. We are reviewing each chapter of the existing plan, as well as the required
elements. Discussions with the Planning Commission have included consideration of existing
accessory apartment regulations and the need to explore detached accessory apartments. Staff




                                                                                                601
anticipates more detailed consideration of detached accessory apartments through continued
discussions about the General Plan. City staff continue to address frequently asked questions
about accessory apartments through phone calls, emails, and text messages from residents in
Orem. Staff has revised project priorities relating to the communications campaign as identified
in previous reporting years relating to this strategy. With the General Plan update, staff has
revised the communications to focus on discussions about general plan chapters, topics with
the Planning Commission and City Council. City Staff is continuing to prioritize communications
and outreach as part of a communications campaign for accessory apartments as directed by
City Council and City Management, and in coordination with other City departments and
Commissions. City Staff is in the process of continuing to evaluate and revise this
communications campaign in response to shifting project priorities, new city staff and other
factors. Updated communications implementation plan in Spring of 2025: Accessory Apartments
Communications Campaign •Email Communications o(Continuing) Monthly City Email
Newsletter Outreach o(Continuing) Email list communicationsQuarterly targeting Orem
Neighborhoods•Meetings & Charettes o(NEW) 2025-2026 General Plan Update Coordination
with City Council, and Planning Commissiono(Continuing) Neighborhood Leader Meetings,
Neighborhood Commission Meetings, o(Continuing) OremFest, Police Picnics, Orem Farmers
Market, Orem Recreation events, Community Cleanups, other City and Neighborhood meetings,
events and activities•(Continuing) How-to videos about accessory apartment
requirements•(Continuing) Redesign of Accessory Apartments Webpage•(Continuing)
Neighborhood Improvement Team and Code enforcement compliance coordination
• (Continuing) Implementation in Long Range Plans•(Continuing/NEW) Continued research on
Detached Accessory Dwelling unitsThis year, Staff has continued with activities from the above
plan, but priorities have shifted to focus on the general plan update. This past year, Staff
continued outreach which we believe impacts interest in accessory apartments and accessory
apartments permitted. This outreach continued to highlight various elements of accessory
apartment requirements, how these units offer affordability, support concepts such as aging-in-
place, and much more. Orem continues to receive inquiries and applications for Accessory
Apartment approvals. Orem had another higher than average approvals for years tracked since
reporting under SB34 and now HB462. Staff anticipates this is due to continued outreach and
other factors such as continued housing market pressures, and how accessory apartments
factor in housing attainment. City staff previously identified two housing charettes. With the
General Plan project coming online, these have been replaced with meetings about housing
with the Planning Commission. Staff has continued coordination with the Neighborhood
Improvement Team (NIT) to track and review non-compliant accessory apartments. This year
there were approximately 41 cases for non-compliant units. This resulted in 4 units becoming
compliant and other units resolving compliance through another method. Staff has completed
research on options for reducing displacement of families through compliance process. Staff is
in process of developing this into communication to share with property owners and the NIT
enforcement team. During the Orem Frontrunner Station Area Plan data gathering process,
Staff and technical consultants reviewed a feasibility analysis of detached accessory
apartments in the Station Area. Through initial discussions with the Planning Commission about
accessory apartments and detached units, staff is reviewing the possibility of conducting a
similar feasibility analysis for the entire city.




                                                                                             602
W
In Fall of 2024, Staff continued the analysis of existing ASH zone. This analysis specifically
reviewed the ASH zone boundaries, code requirements, and development developments in the
ASH zone. Staff will present this analysis for review in the General Plan update that will include
an update to the 2018 Moderate Income Housing Study currently adopted. Staff expects to
discuss the ASH Zone, along with other types of senior housing needs and elements with
Planning Commission as part of the housing plan/chapter review of the existing general plan.
Staff anticipates this Fall 2025. Staff has initiated discussions already as part of the general plan
review, more detailed examination to be included in future general plan meetings. Staff
continues to implement and revise communications priorities. Currently, staff is engaged in the
general plan update which will result in several meetings about housing and other elements and
chapters of the general plan. Staff is focused on discussions about the ASH zone and higher
level, the need for continued senior housing in the city. •Annual Income Reporting
(required)•Email Communications o(Continuing) Monthly City Email Newsletter Outreach
o(NEW) Email list communicationsExisting and Potential developers•Meetings &
Charetteso(NEW) 2025-2026 General Plan Update Coordination with City Council, and
Planning Commissiono(Continuing) Ongoing meetings with Utah County Housing
Authorityo(Continuing) Neighborhood Leader Meetings, Neighborhood Commission Meetings,
o(Continuing) City events: OremFest, Police Picnics, Orem Farmers Market, Orem Recreation
events, Community Cleanups•(NEW) Social media communications•(Continuing) Informational
Video about ASH Zone Overlay Development •(Continuing) Website Visibility Improvements
• (Continuing) Implementation in Long Range Plans

X
The City intends to continue with this strategy and will work with property owners. City Staff and
Administration has met with a property owner multiple times during this reporting year. However,
the project proposal does not meet the current state law HTRZ requirements. City Staff has
encouraged t the property owner to amend the project proposal to meet state law requirements
or meet with the State Legislature about changing state law requirements.

U
In Fall of 2024, staff in coordination with the City Council, City Administration continued to revise
the Phase 1 draft for review. To date, Staff has continued to make small revisions for readability,
accessibility for City Council, Admin, and residents of the city. Staff also conducted station area
analyses of the UVX Stations and have prepared Phase 2 Station Area Plan drafts. Currently,
Staff is in coordination with City Council for preparing Phase 1 and Phase 2 drafts for
submission for Certification with the Mountainland Association of Governments Station Area
Planning Policy Committee, first then adoption by the City Council after Certification.




                                                                                                  603
L
In Fall of 2024 Staff completed a study of the existing ASH Developments and corresponding
impact fees assessed. Staff in discussion and coordination with the City Council prepared a
report of the findings for City Council to consider waiving reducing or waiving impact fees for
developments in the ASH Zone. City Council passed a resolution in December of 2024 to
reduce impact fees for ASH developments. As previously identified, City Staff anticipates
including a review of impact fees strategies as part of the general plan/housing plan update
underway in 2025-2026. Staff is continuing to research best practices and case studies of
impact fees related to affordable units, deed restricted units, accessory dwelling units and other
opportunities for waiving impact fees for affordable housing development. Staff intends to
coordinate a review of these strategies first with the Planning Commission through the general
plan update as to the feasibility of these strategies




4.     Describe each land use regulation or land use decision made between August 1,
2024 and July 31, 2025 to implement this strategy. Include how the regulations or
decisions support efforts to implement the strategy.
E
None

W
The resolution reducing impact fees for projects utilizing the ASH overlay zone was specifically
designed to address this strategy, and we believe it will increase ASH zone development in the
future by enhancing the economic viability of senior housing projects.

X
None

U
None at this time.

L
Resolution: Reducing Impact Fees in ASH Zone,




                                                                                                604
5.      What barriers were encountered by the county or municipality between August 1,
2024 and July 31, 2025 while implementing this strategy? Documenting barriers does
not exempt the community from reporting plan progress The minimum required number
of strategies must advance for compliance, regardless of the barriers faced. If no barriers
were experienced, write "None."
E
Barriers encountered have been relating to staffing capacity and project priorities. Multiple staff
retirements and hiring new staff has added barriers to project capacities, timelines and priorities.
Notwithstanding these barriers, Staff is optimistic about new projects and timelines.

W
Staff has discussed barriers relating to the existing communications campaign plan and has
responded by shifting priorities of campaign and finding opportunities within new project plans to
review existing goals for communications about the ASH zone. City staff proactively discusses
the impact fee reductions for ASH projects with potential developers.

X
The project proposal does not meet the current state law HTRZ requirements.

U
Barriers have included concerns from members of the stakeholder group on elements of the
plan and implementation. City staff, consultant and City Management have spent extra time
addressing these concerns. Draft revisions have addressed these concerns and we are moving
forward with certification and adoption.

L
Planning staff changes have affected project timelines and priorities.




6.      Describe how the market has responded to the implementation of the strategy
(e.g., units permitted, units entitled, deed restrictions, rezones, households displaced during
redevelopment, changes in rents, etc.).
E
The City of Orem had another higher than average year of accessory apartment permits issued
this year of tracking, of all the years reporting since SB34 reporting. City staff sees this as a
direct market response. Staff is continuing to research and finalize methodologies for tracking
accessory apartment rents for improved analysis and reporting.

W
Staff anticipates that the current market conditions present a barrier to developing in the ASH
zone. With the 2024 update of the reduction of impact fees for ASH zone developments, staff




                                                                                                  605
anticipates that we need more time to see market response in ASH zone project interest and
developments.

X
No market changes at this time. Project is still in proposal phase.

U
No market changes as we’re still in the drafting phase.

L
Staff has not identified any direct result of impact fee waivers/reductions in the market at this
time. We have a consultant who is studying our impact fees. Preliminary presentations have
been made to the City Council and we anticipate that new impact fees will be implemented in
early 2026.




7.     Links to supporting documentation (Optional)
E

W

X

U

L


       Attachment to supporting documentation (Optional)
E

W

X

U

L
F_2rwHP0YOhfAY5A2
Orem City Council Resolution_R-2024-0013.pdf
119077
application/pdf




                                                                                                606
FEEDBACK & RECOMMENDATIONS
What types of support would be helpful to your community as you implement the
moderate income housing strategies? (Select all that apply)
Housing supply data,Housing needs data,Planning technical assistance,Model
ordinances.,Case studies for strategies,Staff resources,Reporting technical
assistance,Guidebooks for planning and reporting,Education on partnering with nonprofit
organizations or housing authorities


Describe any recommendations on how the state can support the county or municipality
in implementing the moderate income housing strategies? (If none, please write N/A)


If your community has a fixed guideway transit station or is within 1/2 mile of a rail station, and is
required to adopt the Station Area Plan strategy, please ensure that you do the following:
1) Submit your approved station area plan to your applicable metropolitan planning organization
(Wasatch Front Regional Council or Mountainland Association of Governments). If they
determine that your station area plan is compliant with state code, they will provide your
community a written certification of compliance.
2) Provide us (HCD) with the certification of compliance, either by going back to the optional
attachment page earlier in this report OR emailing it to mih@utah.gov.
For more information on this requirement, see Utah Code 10-9a-403.1 Section (10).


Clicking the "Next" button at the bottom of the form will submit your report.




                                                                                                   607
