                                     South Salt Lake City Council
                                 AMENDED REGULAR MEETING AGENDA

  Public notice is hereby given that the South Salt Lake City Council will hold a Regular Meeting on
  Wednesday, September 14, 2022, in the City Council Chambers, 220 East Morris Avenue, Suite 200,
  commencing at 7:00 p.m., or as soon thereafter as possible. The meeting can be viewed on sslc.gov

  Conducting: Portia Mila, District 2
  Council Chair: Sharla Bynum
  Sergeant at Arms:

  Opening Ceremonies
     1. Welcome/Introductions                                                  Portia Mila
     2. Serious Moment of Reflection/ Pledge of Allegiance                     Sharla Bynum

  Approval of Minutes
      July 27, Work Meeting
      July 27, Regular Meeting
      August 9, 2022 Truth in Taxation Public Hearing

   No Action Comments
      1. Scheduling                                                            City Recorder
      2. Public Comments/Questions
              a. Response to Comments/Questions
                 (at the discretion of the conducting Council Member)
      3. Mayor Comments
      4. City Attorney Comments
      5. City Council Comments

 Action Items
  Unfinished Business
      1. A Resolution of the South Salt Lake City Council Approving            Dennis Pay
          Execution of an Interlocal Cooperation Agreement with Salt
          Lake County providing for the Transfer of County Transportation
          Funds for a certain Transportation Project within Salt Lake County

      2. A Resolution of the South Salt Lake City Council Authorizing          Tiffany Kalinowski
         the South Salt Lake Police Department to Appropriate
         Bicycles in its Possession to a Public Interest Use

      3. A Resolution of the South Salt Lake City Council Authorizing          Tiffany Kalinowski
         the South Salt Lake Police Department to Appropriate
         Firearms, Firearm Parts, Accessories and Ammunition in its
         Possession to a Public Interest Use

      4. An Ordinance of the South Salt Lake City Council Amending         Eliza Ungricht
         Sections 17.03, 17.04, 17.05, 17.06, 17.07, 17.10 and 17.11
         of the South Salt Lake City Municipal Code to Correct Technical
         Errors, Amend certain Permitted Use and Conditional Use Standards
See page two for continuation of Agenda
South Salt Lake City Council Regular Meeting                            September 14, 2022 Page 2


          Amend certain General Development and Design Standards,
          and Amend the Land Use Matrix

      5. An Ordinance of the South Salt Lake City Council Amending the        Eliza Ungricht
         South Salt Lake City Zoning Map to Change the Zoning for
         Professional Office to Commercial Neighborhood, to change the
         Zoning on the Corner of 2100 South and State Street from
         Professional Office and R1 Zones to Commercial Corridor, to
         Change the Zoning at 69 West 2700 South from Commercial
         Neighborhood to the R1 Zone, and to Change the Zoning at
         413-433 East 2700 South from the R1 Zone to the RM Zone



Motion for Closed Meeting

Adjourn

Posted September 13, 2022

  Those needing auxiliary communicative aids or other services for this meeting should contact
  Ariel Andrus at 801-483-6019, giving at least 24 hours’ notice.

                                    Public Comments/Question Policy
  Time is made available for anyone in the audience to address the Council and/or Mayor concerning
  matters pertaining to City business. When a member of the audience addresses the Council and/or
  Mayor, they will come to the podium and state their name and City they reside. The Public will be
  asked to limit their remarks/questions to three (3) minutes each. The conducting Council Member
  shall have discretion as to who will respond to a comment/question. In all cases the criteria for
  response will be that comments/questions must be pertinent to City business, that there are no
  argumentative questions and no personal attacks. Some comments/questions may have to wait for a
  response until the next regular council meeting. The conducting Council Member will inform a citizen
  when they have used the allotted time. Grievances by City employees must be processed in
  accordance with adopted personnel rules.
