1. Agenda

     Documents:

            01_20_22_PC_AGENDA.PDF

2. Meeting Materials

     Documents:

            BENNETT_PC STAFF REPORT_FINAL.PDF
            BRIGHTON BANK_PC STAFF REPORT_FINAL_ATTACHMENTS.PDF
                                                        AGENDA
                                            PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
                                                Thursday, January 20, 2022
                                                  City Council Chambers
                                                220 E. Morris Ave, 2nd Floor

                   PLANNING COMMISSION WORK MEETING AT 6:15 P.M.

                    1. Planning Commission Training       Review of Commission Bylaws; and Training
                                                          regarding Accessory Dwelling Units (ADU); and
                                                          upcoming potential development code
                                                          amendments.
                   PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING AT 7:00 P.M.

 ALEXANDRA         Pledge of Allegiance:   Christy Dahlberg
   WHITE           Approve Agenda:
 COMMUNITY
DEVELOPMENT        PLANNING COMMISSION BUSINESS
  DIRECTOR
                                           Election of a new chairperson for 2022

                   NEW BUSINESS


                    1. PUBLIC HEARING
                       S-21-010       Preliminary Plat approval for a subdivision plat amendment to
                                      adjust the lot line between two existing parcels
                                      ACTION ITEM
                       Applicant:     Bryan and Robin Bennett
                       Address:       2770 & 2778 South Blair Street

                    2. PUBLIC HEARING
                       SV-21-001
                                           Preliminary Plat approval for a plat amendment subdividing an
                                           existing lot into 3 lots.
                                           ACTION ITEM
                       Applicant:          Roderick Enterprises on behalf of Brighton Bank
                       Address:            41-93 West 3300 South

                   CONTINUING BUSINESS

                                           None at this time

                   PLANNING COMMISSION BUSINESS

                                           Approval of the December 22, 2021 Planning Commission
CHERIE WOOD                                Minutes
    MAYOR                                  ACTION ITEM
220 E MORRIS AVE
     SUITE 200
                   STAFF BUSINESS – INFORMATION ITEMS
SOUTH SALT LAKE
       UTAH                                Distribution of General Plan to Planning Commission
       84115
 O 801.483.6000
  F 801.483.6001       IN COMPLIANCE WITH THE AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT, INDIVIDUALS NEEDING AUXILLARY
                    COMMUNICATIVE AIDS OR OTHER SERVICES FOR THIS MEETING SHOULD CONTACT SEAN LEWIS, (801) 483-
    SSLC.COM
                                              6010, GIVING AT LEAST 24 HOURS NOTICE.
MAYOR@SSLC.COM
                                PLANNING COMMISSION STAFF REPORT

 MEETING DATE:   January 20, 2022
 PROJECT NUMBER: S-21-010
 REQUEST(S):      A petition for a subdivision plat amendment to adjust the lot line between two existing
                 parcels.
 ADDRESS:        2770 South and 2778 South Blair Street
 PARCEL NUMBER:  16-30-201-003-0000
                 16-30-201-004-0000
 PROPERTY OWNERS: Bryan and Robin Bennett – 2770 South Blair Street
                 Bryan and Robin Bennett – 2778 South Blair Street
 APPLICANTS:     Bryan and Robin Bennett

SYNOPSIS:
Bryan and Robin Bennett are petitioning the Planning Commission for an amendment to the Homefield Plat B
subdivision plat to adjust the lot line between their two parcels located at 2770 South and 2778 South Blair Street.

Each existing parcel has one single
family home facing Blair Street and
detached      accessory    structures
located in the rear. The applicant
wants to sell their property at 2770
South Blair Street, but they want to
make their current back yard at 2778
S Blair Street bigger by adjusting
the lot lines before they sell. Each
subject parcel must comply with the
frontage and minimum lot square
footage as outlined in the R1
Residential Land Use District of the
South Salt Lake Municipal Code.

The Planning Commission is the
Land Use Authority on all
subdivision plat applications and
amendments.


EXISTING     EXISTING      SURROUNDING             EXISTING LOT          PROPOSED LOT               PROPERTY
ZONING         USE           LAND USE                  SIZES                 SIZES                   ACCESS
                             DISTRICTS
    R1         Single         North: R1          2770 South: 0.335       2770 South: 0.177     2770 South: 62 foot
               Family        South: R1             Acres (14,577        Acres (7,732 square    frontage along Blair
               Homes          East: R1              square feet)                feet)                Street.
                              West: R1           2778 South: 0.267       2778 South: 0.423     2778 South: 53 foot
                                                   Acres (11,613           Acres (18,459       frontage along Blair
                                                    square feet)            square feet)             Street.

 STAFF RECOMMENDATION:
 Staff recommends the Planning Commission move to approve the preliminary subdivision plat amendment to
 adjust the lot line between the two existing parcels located at 2770 South and 2778 South Blair Street. Staff’s
 recommendation is based upon its analysis and findings included below.

                                                         1
                               PLANNING COMMISSION STAFF REPORT

GENERAL INFORMATION:
   Location:                       2770 South and 2778 South Blair Street
   Existing Lot Sizes:             2770 South: 0.335 acres (14,577 square feet)
                                   2778 South: 0.267 acres (11,613 square feet)
   Proposed Lot Sizes:             2770 South: 0.177 acres (7,732 square feet)
                                   2778 South: 0.423 acres (18,459 square feet)
   Surrounding Land Use Districts: North: R1
                                   South: R1
                                   East: R1
                                   West: R1

Figure 1: Existing Lot Lines




                                                    2
Figure 2: Proposed Lot Lines




                                         *NO STRUCTURE CROSSES PROPERTY LINES

                                            *NO STRUCTURES CROSS PROPERTY LINES




Figure 3: Existing Site Conditions




                                     3
Figure 4: Preliminary Site Plan **Final Plat in attachments**




                                                *SITE PLAN IS CONCEPTUAL – SUBJECT TO TECHNICAL REVIEW


Figure 5: ALTA Survey




                                                      4
PLANNING COMMISSION AUTHORITY:
17.11.030. Land use authority designations.
Pursuant to state law, the following administrative land use authority designations are made:

    A. Planning Commission. The planning commission is the land use authority on issues of: subdivision and
       subdivision plat approval, vacating, altering or amending a Subdivision Plat; Conditional Use permit
       Applications; design review for Building Heights as established in this Title; design review for projects on
       Parcels where any portion of the Parcel abuts any residential district; and the issuance of a Building or
       demolition permit in a Historic and Landmark district.


GENERAL PLAN CONSIDERATIONS:
Land Use & Neighborhoods Goal 1. Continue to welcome new residents and businesses into South Salt Lake.

        Analysis: The proposed lot line adjustment will bring a new homeowner to South Salt Lake.

ORDINANCE ANALYSIS:
Ordinance                              Finding                                       Notes / Insufficiency
Title 17 – Land Use
17.10.140 – Subdivision Development Lot Standards
A. All Final Plats shall result in the The proposed lots will be 0.177 acres
     creation of compliant Lots and (7,732 square feet) and 0.423 acres
     Building sites.                   (18,459 square feet).
                                       Both lots will be compliant with the
                                       standards of the R1 land use district,
                                       which has a 6,000 square feet minimum
                                       lot requirement for single-family homes.
B. Frontage on public street           2770 South: 62 feet of frontage along
                                       Blair Street.
                                       2778 South: 53 feet of frontage along
                                       Blair Street.
                                       Both parcels comply with the 50-foot
                                       frontage requirement.
C. Street right-of-way shall be The lots are separate from the Right of
     separate and distinct from Way.
     subdivided lots.
D. Minimum area and dimensions 2770 South: 62.03 feet wide by 114.26
     shall conform.                    feet long.
                                       2778 South: 53 feet along the frontage,
                                       221.15 feet along the south property line,
                                       115.03 feet along the west property line,
                                       106.89 feet along the north property line,
                                       62.03 feet along the east property line,
                                       and 114.26 feet along the north property
                                       line.
                                       Both parcels comply with the 50-foot
                                       frontage requirement.
E. Side boundary lines shall be at All newly created side boundary lines are
     right angles to the street.       at right angles to all adjacent streets.
F. Side boundary lines of lots shall Not Applicable
     be radial to center of a Cul-de-
     Sac
G. Corner lots for residential uses Not Applicable
     shall be platted wider than
     interior lots
                                                        5
H. Lots shall not divide City         All existing and proposed parcels are
   boundary                           located within South Salt Lake City.
I. Double frontage lots               Not Applicable
J. Multiple building yard areas       2770 South:                                    The detached garage at 2770
                                         House Setbacks:                             South is existing. It does not
                                              North – 8.6 feet                       meet the current setback
                                              South – 28 feet                        requirements. Due to the
                                              East – 20 feet                         parcel line to the north not
                                              West – about 40 feet                   moving,      the       existing
                                         Garage Setbacks:                            detached garage can stay as
                                              North – 0.2 feet                       is.
                                              South – about 45 feet
                                              East – about 85 feet                   Shed 4 at 2778 South is
                                              West – 2 feet                          existing. It does not meet the
                                      2778 South:                                    current                setback
                                         House Setbacks:                             requirements. Due to the
                                              North – 5 feet                         parcel line to the north not
                                              South – 22.5 feet                      moving, the existing shed can
                                              East – 19.3 feet to porch, 21.1 feet   stay as is.
                                              to house
                                              West – about 125 feet
                                          Carport Setbacks:
                                              North – about 25 feet
                                              South – 2.3 feet
                                              East – about 75 feet
                                              West – about 100 feet
                                          Shed 1:
                                              North – 64 feet
                                              South – 28.1 feet
                                              East – about 125 feet
                                              West – about 70 feet
                                          Shed 2:
                                              North – about 65 feet
                                              South – about 29 feet
                                              East – about 140 feet
                                              West – about 55 feet
                                          Shed 3:
                                              North – about 65 feet
                                              South – 30 feet
                                              East – about 160 feet
                                              West – 30.1 feet
                                          Shed 4:
                                              North – 1 foot
                                              South – about 95 feet
                                              East – about 140 feet
                                              West – about 45 feet
                                          Shed 5:
                                              To be removed
                                          Chicken Coop:
                                               To be removed
K. Side lot lines shall be at right   The newly created side lot lines are at a
   angles to street lines             right angle to street lines.
L. Dimensions of Corner Lots shall    Not Applicable
   be large enough to allow for
   erection of Buildings
M. Depth and width of properties      Not Applicable
   shall be adequate to provide for
                                                       6
   off-street parking and loading
   facilities
N. New Single-Family lots shall not     Not Applicable
   Front on or access an Arterial or
   Collector Street
O. If Access from an Arterial or        Not Applicable
   Collector Street is necessary for
   new adjoining lots, such lots
   shall be served by separate local
   street
P. Driveways shall be designed and      2770 South: The existing driveway is           Due to the infrastructure
   arranged to avoid vehicles           made of cement and is 8.6 feet wide at the     being in place, the driveways
   backing onto Streets                 most narrow point. The drive approach is       will not need to be
                                        about 10 feet wide. The way this driveway      redesigned in order to avoid
                                        is designed cars will need to back into the    vehicles backing onto Blair
                                        street.                                        Street.
                                        2778 South: The existing driveway is
                                        made of cement and is about 10 feet
                                        wide. The drive approach is also about 10
                                        feet wide. The way this driveway is
                                        designed cars will need to back into the
                                        street.
Q. Lots shall be laid out to provide The drainage is already in place via the
    positive drainage away from all landscaping and will not be changing.
    buildings.                          2770 South: A majority of the front yard is
                                        landscaped with grass; the remainder of
                                        the front yard is landscaped with
                                        flowerbeds. It appears that the park strip
                                        has been filled in with cement. It appears
                                        that a majority of the back yard is also
                                        grass.
                                        2778 South: A majority of the front yard is
                                        landscaped with grass; the remainder of
                                        the front yard is landscaped with
                                        flowerbeds and decorative mulch. The
                                        park strip also has grass. It appears that a
                                        majority of the back yard is also grass.
17.10.160(A) - Drainage and Storm Sewers General Requirements
A. Each plat shall make adequate Adequate provision for storm or flood
    provision for storm or flood water runoff are provided per SSL
    water runoff.                       Engineering review.
17.10.160(B) – Nature of Stormwater Facilities
1. Upon recommendation of City Not Applicable
    Engineer, applicants may be
    required to carry away by pipe
    or open channel any spring or
    surface water that may exist
    either previously to or as a result
    of the subdivision.
2. Adequate             underground Not Applicable
    stormwater systems shall be
    constructed and maintained.
3. Accommodation of Upstream Not Applicable
    Drainage Areas.
4. Adequate storm / flood water Not Applicable
    drainage will be provided to an

                                                         7
   approved drainage watercourse
   or facility with capacity.
5. Areas of poor drainage shall be       Not Applicable
   remediated as applicable.
6. Flood plain areas shall be            Not Applicable
   preserved                   upon
   recommendation          of   City
   Engineer when necessary for the
   health, safety, or welfare of the
   population of the area.
17.10.170 - Water Facilities
A. Applicant shall extend public         The two lots have existing water meter
   culinary water supply-system for      connections   through    Blair   Street.
   the purpose of providing an           Adequate water supply provisions are
   adequate water-supply to the          proposed per SSL Engineering review.
   Plat
B. Applicant shall install adequate      One existing fire hydrant is located in the
   water facilities including fire       existing park strip between 2770 S. and
   hydrants.                             2778 S. Blair Street. The hydrant location
                                         is included on the plat or site plan.
C. Fire flow shall be approved by        Not Applicable
   the Fire Marshal.
D. Water main extensions shall           Each lot has an existing 8” water meter
   meet the City’s standards.            that enters the property from Blair Street.
                                         The existing water main meets SSL
                                         standards per SSL Engineering review.
E. Location of all fire hydrants, all    No infrastructure improvement will be
   water and storage supply              made on these properties.
   improvements shall be shown on
   the Preliminary and Final Plat.
F. A determination shall be made         Not applicable. There are no facilities at
   as to location or extent of           this location to be maintained by South
   facilities to be maintained by        Salt Lake City.
   South Salt Lake City, if any.
G. Fire hydrants required for all        One existing fire hydrant is located in the
   plats.                                existing park strip between 2770 S. and
                                         2778 S. Blair Street. The hydrant location
                                         is included on the plat or site plan.
   17.10.180 - Sewer Facilities
A. General              Requirements.    A will serve letter has been submitted
   Applicant shall install sanctuary     from South Salt Lake.
   sewer facilities in a manner
   prescribed by the applicable
   sanitary sewer authority
B. Residential and Nonresidential        A will serve letter has been submitted
   Subdivision. Sanitary sewer           from South Salt Lake.
   facilities shall connect with the
   public sanitary sewer at sizes
   required by the sanitary sewer
   authority
   17.10.190 – Utilities
A. Utility facilities shall be located   Not Applicable. No new utilities will be
   underground            in      new    installed.
   subdivisions.
B. Easements. Easements centered         Not Applicable
   on Rear Lot Lines shall be
   provided for private and
                                                          8
     municipal       utilities;      such
     easements shall be at least 10’
     wide.
     17.10.200 - Sidewalks, Trails, and Bike Paths
A.   Subdivision shall comply with A 6.5-foot right of way dedication is
     the applicable road profile.          required along Blair Street. The current
                                           right of way improvements include
                                           curb/gutter, park strip, and sidewalk will
                                           remain in place. No new right of way
                                           improvements will be made at this time.
B.   Trails, pedestrian paths, and The              existing      sidewalks      relate
     bike     paths      shall      relate appropriately to topography on the site
     appropriately to topography.          and comply with South Salt Lake code.
C.   Trails, pedestrian paths, and The Trails Master Plan does not include
     bike paths shall be provided in any facilities adjacent to the subject
     accordance with the Trails property.
     Master Plan.
     17.06.300(I)(A) – Standards for Single-Family Buildings
A.   Front yard and corner side yard Both lots have at least 75% live plant
     Landscaped Areas required to material in the front yards.
     be     landscaped        shall    be 2770 South: A majority of the front yard is
     landscaped with suitable trees, landscaped with grass; the remainder of
     shrubs,             groundcovers, the front yard is landscaped with
     perennials,         or         other flowerbeds. There is also one tree in the
     Landscaping materials. Plants, front yard.
     not including tree canopies, 2778 South: A majority of the front yard is
     shall cover at least 75% of the landscaped with grass; the remainder of
     front and/or corner side yard the front yard is landscaped with
     area at maturity.                     flowerbeds and decorative mulch. There
                                           are also three trees in the front yard.
B.   Each front yard shall contain at 2770 S. has one tree in the front yard.             2770 S has one existing tree,
     least two (2) trees.                  2778 S. has three trees in the front yard.     due to there being no change
                                                                                          to the lot lines around the
                                                                                          front yard, the City will not be
                                                                                          requiring an additional tree
                                                                                          be planted.
C. Water    features,  landscape          Both lots have at least 75% live plant
   boulders, decorative rocks,            material in the front yards.
   gravel, and organic mulch are
   permitted but shall not be
   considered a substitute for
   plants.

STAFF RECOMMENDATION:
Based upon the information submitted in the application, supporting documentation, and analysis of the relevant
code sections and general plan goals, Staff recommends the Planning Commission move to approve, with
conditions, the preliminary subdivision plat amendment to adjust the lot line between the two existing parcels
located at 2770 South and 2778 South Blair Street, and proposes the following findings of fact as a basis for the
decision and the following recommended conditions of approval:

Findings of Fact:

     1.   The subject properties, located at 2770 South and 2778 South Blair Street, consist of two separate
          parcels.
     2.   The parcels are both located within the R1 land use district.
     3.   The proposed subdivision will change the parcel line locations.

                                                           9
   4.    The new parcels will be 0.177 acres and 0.423 acres in size.
   5.    Both of these comply with the 6,000 minimum lot requirement and the 50-foot lot frontage minimum
         within the R1 land use district.
   6.    The subject properties both currently have existing single-family homes. Additionally, both properties
         have accessory structures.
             a. The detached garage at 2770 South is existing. It does not meet the current setback
                 requirements on the north side. Due to the parcel line to the north not moving, the existing
                 detached garage can stay as is.
             b. The property at 2778 South has multiple accessory structures, some of which will be removed.
                 The applicant is proposing to leave shed #4 in place. It does not meet the current setback
                 requirements on the north side. Due to the parcel line to the north not moving, the existing
                 shed can stay as is. All other accessory structures on the 2778 South property meet all the
                 setback requirements.
   7.    Staff has reviewed this subdivision for compliance with SSL Municipal Code Section “17.10.140
         Subdivision Development Lot Standards” and found that this subdivision is compliant with this section,
         as outlined above.
   8.    Staff has reviewed this subdivision for compliance with SSL Municipal Code Section “17.10.150
         Subdivision and Condominium Plat Layout Requirements” and found that this subdivision is compliant
         with this section, as outlined above.
   9.    Staff has reviewed this subdivision for compliance with SSL Municipal Code Sections 17.10.160,
         17.10.170, 17.10.180, 17.10.190, 17.10.200, and 17.10.300, and found that this subdivision is compliant
         with those sections, as outlined above.
   10.   The Planning Commission held a public hearing on January 20, 2022 and reviewed the application.

Conclusions of Law:

   1.    Based on the findings above, the Planning Commission has good cause to approve the subdivision
         plat amendment.

Conditions of Approval:

   1.    The applicant will continue to work with City staff to make all technical corrections necessary prior to
         recording;
   2.    Prior to plat recordation and occupancy of any new development within this plat, the applicant must
         provide city staff the final plat Mylar to include notarized signatures of owners’ consent to dedication;
         obtain signatures of all entities indicated on the subdivision plat attached hereto;
   3.    Complete (or post an adequate improvement completion assurance), warrant and post required
         warranty assurance for all required landscaping and public infrastructure improvements;
   4.    All improvements shall be installed consistent with the requirements of the South Salt Lake City
         Municipal Code;
   5.    6.5 feet of the applicants property on Blair Street shall be dedicated as public right of way to South
         Salt Lake City;
   6.    2770 S has one existing tree, due to there being no change to the lot lines around the front yard, the
         City will not be requiring an additional tree be planted.
   7.    All items of the staff report.

PLANNING COMMISSION OPTIONS:

   Option 1: Approval
   Move to approve the application by Bryan and Robin Bennett for a preliminary subdivision plat amendment
   to adjust the lot line between the two existing parcels located at 2770 South and 2778 South State Street,
   with the conditions enumerated in the staff report and on the record.

   Option 2: Denial



                                                       10
   Move to deny the application by Bryan and Robin Bennett for a preliminary subdivision plat amendment to
   adjust the lot line between two existing parcels located at 2770 South and 2778 South State Street, for the
   reasons stated on the record.

   Option 3: Continuance
   Move to table the decision on the application by Bryan and Robin Bennett for a preliminary subdivision plat
   amendment to adjust the lot line between two existing parcels located at 2770 South and 2778 South State
   Street, to a date certain, for the reasons stated on the record, and in order to allow the applicant or Staff
   time to provide the Planning Commission the information requested to make a decision.

Attachments:
   1.   ALTA Survey
   2.   Plat




                                                      11
                               PLANNING COMMISSION STAFF REPORT
MEETING DATE:                  January 20, 2022
PROJECT NUMBER:                S-21-006
REQUEST:                       Preliminary plat approval for a subdivision plat amendment to subdivide one
                               existing parcel into two parcels.
ADDRESS:                       41-93 West 3300 South
PARCEL NUMBER:                 15-25-477-041-0000
PROPERTY OWNER:                Brighton Bank
APPLICANT:                     Roderick Enterprises

 SYNOPSIS:
 On behalf of Brighton Bank, Roderick Enterprises is petitioning the Planning Commission for preliminary
 approval of a subdivision plat amendment to the Burton Addition subdivision plat to subdivide one
 existing parcel into two parcels located at 41-93 West 3300 South.

 The property currently has
 three commercial buildings:
 A retail building that
 includes Brighton Bank and
 two stand-alone restaurants
 – David’s Kitchen and Mano
 Thai. The applicant is
 requesting approval of this
 application so the property
 owner, Brighton Bank, can
 sell Lot 16A.

 The Planning Commission is
 the Land Use Authority on
 all     subdivision   plat
 applications          and
 amendments.




 EXISTING     EXISTING USES        PROPOSED USES            EXISTING      PROPOSED         PROPERTY
 ZONING                                                     LOT SIZE      LOT SIZES         ACCESS

   TOD       Restaurant/Retail/    Restaurant/Retail/       2.40 Acres   Lot 16A – 0.809    Sue Street
   Core           Financial             Financial                             Acres        3300 South
                 Institution           Institution                       Lot 16B – 1.527   West Temple
                                                                              Acres

STAFF RECOMMENDATION:
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission vote to approve a preliminary subdivision plat amendment
to subdivide one existing parcel into two parcels located at 41-93 West 3300 South. Staff’s recommendation
is based upon its analysis and findings included below.



                                                        1
                             PLANNING COMMISSION STAFF REPORT

GENERAL INFORMATION:
 Location:                         41-93 West 3300 South
 Existing Lot Size:                2.40 acres
 Proposed Lot Size:                Lot 16A: 0.809 acres
                                   Lot 16B: 1.527 acres
 Surrounding Land Use Districts:   North: TOD Core
                                   South: TOD Core
                                   East: TOD Core
                                   West: TOD Core


 Figure 1: Existing and Proposed Lot Lines




                                                 2
Figure 2: Proposed Lot Lines with Building Setbacks




                                                 3
Figure 3: ALTA Survey

   The storm drain (pink) crosses the proposed parcel line. This will require the applicant to submit a
   drainage access and management easement. The non-conforming drive approaches (black boxes) will
   be closed. The applicant will be required to install the curb/gutter, sidewalk, and landscaping to match
   the existing infrastructure.




                                                    4
Figure 4: Elevations of Existing Buildings




                                             5
Figure 5: Applicant’s Conceptual Site Plan **Draft Plat in attachments**




                                                  6
 PLANNING COMMISSION AUTHORITY:
 17.11.030. Land use authority designations.
 Pursuant to state law, the following administrative land use authority designations are made:

    A. Planning Commission. The planning commission is the land use authority on issues of: subdivision
    and subdivision plat approval, vacating, altering or amending a Subdivision Plat; Conditional Use
    permit Applications; design review for Building Heights as established in this Title; design review for
    projects on Parcels where any portion of the Parcel abuts any residential district; and the issuance of a
    Building or demolition permit in a Historic and Landmark district.


GENERAL PLAN CONSIDERATIONS:
 Land Use & Neighborhoods Goal 3. Enhance urban and streetscape design in the city to support South
 Salt Lake’s distinct image and enhance community pride.

    Analysis: This subdivision will close two non-conforming drive approaches in the development. The
    closing of these two drive approaches will enhance the urban and streetscape design along 3300
    South, West Temple, and Sue Street.

 ORDINANCE ANALYSIS:

             Ordinance                                Finding                      Notes / Insufficiency
                                             Title 17 – Land Use
 17.06.120 – General Provisions
 A. Non-conforming, unused or There are two non-conforming drive A condition of approval will be
    abandoned drive approaches approaches as shown in Figure 2. closing                the   two     non-
    shall    be      brought     into Both of the drive approaches will be conforming drive approaches
    compliance with the provisions closed off. The applicant will be and installing the curb/gutter,
    of this Chapter.                  required to install the curb/gutter, sidewalk, landscaping, etc. in
                                      sidewalk, landscaping, etc.          their place.
 B. Shared driveways between and The subdivision plat will include a A condition of approval will be
    among Lots or Parcels are blanket cross access easement across that the subdivision plat will
    allowed only if both Owners both subject parcels.                      include a blanket cross access
    execute     and     record     an                                      easement across both subject
    easement in a form approved by                                         parcels.
    the City to ensure access in
    perpetuity for both Parcels.
 17.10.140 – Subdivision Development Lot Standards
 A. Results in a compliant lot and The proposed new lots will be sized
    building sites.                as follows:
                                    • Lot 16A: 0.809 acres
                                    • Lot 16B: 1.527 acres
                                   These lots are compliant with the
                                   standards in the TOD Core zone,
                                   which does not contain specific
                                   minimum area standards for a
                                   commercial lot.
 B. Frontage on public street      Both of the lots resulting from this
                                   subdivision front on 3300 South.
                                   Access will be provided from 3300
                                   South, Sue Street, and West Temple
                                   via a proposed cross access
                                   easement.

                                                      7
C. Street right-of-way shall be The lot is separate from the Right of
   separate and distinct from Way. All existing infrastructure on the
   subdivided lots.             parcels will remain in place. There are
                                two    required      right     of    way
                                dedications:
                                 • West Temple – 4.5 feet
                                 • Sue Street – 6.5 feet
                                The curb/gutter, sidewalk, and
                                landscape buffer will remain in place.
D. Minimum area and dimensions There are no specified area
   shall conform.               requirements in the TOD Core zone.
                                The proposed lot area and
                                dimensions      are      sufficient    to
                                accommodate            all       required
                                development improvements.
E. Side boundary lines shall be at All newly created side boundary lines
   right angles to the street.     are at right angles to the street.
F. Side boundary lines shall be Not Applicable
   radial to the center of a Cul-de-
   Sac
G. Corner lots for residential uses Not Applicable
   shall be platted wider than
   interior lots
H. Lots shall not divide City All existing parcels are located within
   boundary                          South Salt Lake City.
I.   Double frontage residential lots Not Applicable

J. Multiple building envelopes       Not Applicable

K. Side lot lines shall be at right The newly created side lot lines are at
   angles to street lines           a right angle to street lines.
L. Dimensions of Corner Lots shall There are existing buildings on both
   be large enough to allow for of the proposed parcels, which will
   erection of Buildings            remain in place.
M. Depth and width of properties Lot 16A needs 43 parking stalls. It
   shall be adequate to provide for currently has 46 stalls. Lot 16B needs
   off street parking and loading 77 parking stalls. It currently has 84
   facilities.                      stalls. Both parcels meet the parking
                                    requirements.
N. New Single-Family lots           Not Applicable
O. If Access from an Arterial or Not Applicable
   Collector Street is necessary for
   new adjoining lots, such lots
   shall be served by separate local
   street.
P. Driveways shall be designed and No changes are proposed to the              A condition of approval will
   arranged to avoid vehicles existing drive approaches onto 3300             be closing the two non-
   backing onto Streets              South. There are two drive               conforming drive approaches
                                     approaches on Sue Street and West        and installing the curb/gutter,
                                     Temple. Both the drive approaches        sidewalk, landscaping, etc. in
                                     on the north end of the parcels will     their place.
                                     be closed off. This will make the lot

                                                       8
                                     compliant with the current standards
                                     in Title 17. A proposed cross access
                                     easement grants access to existing
                                     thoroughfares. No driveways or
                                     parking stalls back onto public
                                     streets.
Q. Lots shall be laid out to provide Drainage plans provide positive          A condition of approval will be
   positive drainage away from all drainage per Engineering review. The       that the subdivision plat will
   buildings.                        storm drains are existing. They will     include a drainage access and
                                     cross the proposed parcel lines. Due     maintenance easement. This
                                     to the drainage crossing parcel lines,   easement will be recorded
                                     a drainage easement will be required.    with the Salt Lake County
                                                                              Recorder’s Office before final
                                                                              plat approval.
17.10.160(A) - Drainage and Storm Sewers General Requirements
A. Each plat shall make adequate Adequate provisions for storm or A condition of approval will be
   provision for storm or flood flood water runoff are provided per that the subdivision plat will
   water runoff.                      SSL Engineering review. The storm include a drainage access and
                                      drains are existing. They will cross the maintenance easement. This
                                      proposed parcel lines. Due to the easement will be recorded
                                      drainage crossing parcel lines, a with the Salt Lake County
                                      drainage easement will be required. Recorder’s Office before final
                                                                               plat approval.
17.10.160(B) – Nature of Stormwater Facilities
A. Applicants may be required by Not applicable per Engineering
   the City Engineer to carry away review.
   by pipe or open channel any
   spring or surface water that may
   exist either previously to or as a
   result of the subdivision.
B. Adequate         underground Adequate underground storm water              A condition of approval will be
   stormwater systems shall be systems are provided per engineering           that the subdivision plat will
   constructed and maintained.  review. The storm drains are existing.        include a drainage access and
                                They will cross the proposed parcel           maintenance easement. This
                                lines. Due to the drainage crossing           easement will be recorded
                                parcel lines, a drainage easement will        with the Salt Lake County
                                be required.                                  Recorder’s Office before final
                                                                              plat approval.
C. Accommodation of Upstream Not applicable
   Drainage Areas.
D. Adequate storm / flood water Adequate storm and floodwater                 A condition of approval will be
   drainage will be provided to an drainage is provided per Engineering       that the subdivision plat will
   approved drainage watercourse review. The storm drain does cross           include a drainage access and
   or facility with capacity.
                                   parcel line. A storm drain agreement       maintenance easement. This
                                   and easement will be required and          easement will be recorded
                                   will be reviewed by the City’s legal       with the Salt Lake County
                                   department.                                Recorder’s Office before final
                                                                              plat approval.
E. Areas of poor drainage shall be Sufficient drainage is provided per
   remediated as applicable.       Engineering review.


                                                     9
F. Flood plain areas shall be No flood plain areas exist to be
   preserved                   upon preserved upon recommendation of
   recommendation         of    City the South Salt Lake City Engineer.
   Engineer when necessary for the
   health, safety, or welfare of the
   population of the area.
17.10.170 – Water Facilities
A. Applicant shall extend public The subdivision is already connected
   culinary water supply-system for to an existing water meter. Nothing
   the purpose of providing an will be changing; there is currently
   adequate water-supply to the adequate water supply provisions per
   Plat                              SSL Engineering review.
B. Applicant shall install adequate The subdivision already has adequate
   water facilities including fire water facilities including fire hydrants
   hydrants.                         per the SSL Fire Marshal.
C. The Fire Marshal shall approve A fire flow test was performed and the
   fire flow.                        results were adequate for the
                                     proposed subdivision per Fire
                                     Marshal review.
D. Water main extensions shall Not applicable
   meet the City’s standards.
E. Location of all fire hydrants, all The location of all fire hydrants, all
   water and storage supply water                and      storage    supply
   improvements shall be shown on improvements, and the boundary
   the Preliminary and Final Plat.    lines of proposed districts complies
                                      and is part of the existing
                                      infrastructure.
F. A determination shall be made Not applicable. There are no facilities
   as to location or extent of at this location to be maintained by
   facilities to be maintained by South Salt Lake City.
   South Salt Lake City, if any.
G. Fire hydrants required for all There are two hydrants located on the
   plats.                             east side of Sue Street and there is
                                      one hydrant on the south side of the
                                      south drive approach on West
                                      Temple. The fire hydrants are
                                      adequate per the SSL Fire Marshal.
17.10.180 – Sewer Facilities
A. General             Requirements. A will serve letter has been submitted
   Applicant shall install sanctuary from Mt. Olympus Improvement
   sewer facilities in a manner District.
   prescribed by the applicable
   sanitary sewer authority.
B. Residential and Non-residential A will serve letter has been submitted
   Subdivision. Sanitary sewer from Mt. Olympus Improvement
   facilities shall connect with the District.
   public sanitary sewer at sizes
   required by the sanitary sewer
   authority.




                                                     10
17.10.190 – Utilities
A. Utility facilities shall be located The existing utilities will stay as they
   underground            in      new are, they will not be located
   subdivisions.                       underground.
B. Easements centred on Rear Lot All utilities already have easements.
   Lines shall be provided for
   private and municipal utilities;
   such easements shall be at least
   10’ wide.
17.10.200 – Sidewalks, Trails, and Bike Paths
A. Subdivision shall comply with Current right of way improvements                 A condition of approval will
   the applicable road profile.      include curb/gutter, a five-foot             be closing the two non-
                                     sidewalk,     and     four     feet    of    conforming drive approaches
                                     landscaping. In the proposed site            and installing the curb/gutter,
                                     plan, all of the existing right of way       sidewalk, landscaping, etc. in
                                     infrastructure will remain in place. The     their place.
                                     only change will be the two drive
                                     approaches, which will be closed, and
                                     the applicant will be required to
                                     match the current right of way
                                     infrastructure. There will also be a 6.5-
                                     foot right of way dedication along Sue
                                     Street and a 4.5-foot dedication
                                     along West Temple.
B. Trails, pedestrian paths, and Public and internal pathways relate
   bike    paths     shall    relate appropriately to topography on the
   appropriately to topography.      site.
C. Trails, pedestrian paths, and The Trails Master Plan does not
   bike paths shall be consistent include any facilities adjacent to the
   with the Trails Master Plan.      subject property.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION:
Staff recommends the Planning Commission approve the preliminary subdivision plat amendment to
subdivide one existing parcel into two parcels located at 41-93 West 3300 South, with the following
conditions:

Findings of Fact:

   1. The subject property is located at 41-93 West 3300 South.
   2. The lot is located within the TOD Core land use district.
   3. The proposed subdivision will subdivide the parcel into two parcels.
   4. The new lots will be 0.809 acres and 1.527 acres in size.
   5. These lots are compliant with the standards in the TOD Core zone, which does not contain specific
      minimum area standards for a commercial lot.
   6. The subject property currently has retail uses, restaurant uses, and a financial institution.
   7. Staff has reviewed this subdivision for compliance with SSL Municipal Code Section “17.10.140
      Subdivision Development Lot Standards” and found that this subdivision is compliant with this
      section.



                                                       11
   8. Staff has reviewed this subdivision for compliance with SSL Municipal Code Section “17.10.150
       Subdivision and Condominium Plat Layout Requirements” and found that this subdivision is
       compliant with this section as conditioned.
   9. Staff has reviewed this subdivision for compliance with SSL Municipal Code Sections 17.10.160,
       17.10.170, 17.10.180, 17.10.190, 17.10.200, and 17.10.300, and found that this subdivision is
       compliant with those sections as conditioned, as outlined above.
   10. The Planning Commission held a public hearing on January 20, 2022 and reviewed the application.

Conclusions of Law:

   1. Based on the findings above, the Planning Commission has good cause to approve the subdivision
      plat amendment.

Conditions of Approval:

   1. The applicant will continue to work with City staff to make all technical corrections necessary prior
      to recording the plat;
   2. Prior to plat recordation and any additional development of the subsequent lot, the applicant must
      provide city staff the final plat mylar to include notarized signatures of owners’ consent to
      dedication; obtain signatures of all entities indicated on the subdivision plat attached hereto;
   3. Complete (or post an adequate improvement completion assurance), warrant and post required
      warranty assurance for all required landscaping and public infrastructure improvements;
   4. The plat shall include language dedicating an easement to the City of South Salt for purposes of
      storm water management practices, in a form as approved by the City Attorney’s Office;
   5. All site improvements shall be installed consistent with the requirements of the South Salt Lake
      City Municipal Code;
   6. The applicant shall close the two non-conforming drive approaches and install the curb/gutter,
      sidewalk, and landscaping consistent with the requirements of the South Salt Lake City Municipal
      Code;
   7. The applicant shall provide on the plat a storm water agreement and easement for the storm drain
      that crosses the parcel lines, subject to the satisfaction of the South Salt Lake Attorney’s Office;
   8. The applicant shall provide on the plat an cross access easement for all subject lots, subject to the
      satisfaction of the South Salt Lake Attorney’s Office;
   9. All items of the staff report.


PLANNING COMMISSION OPTIONS:
   Option 1: Approval
   Move to approve the application by Roderick Enterprises, on behalf of Brighton Bank, for a preliminary
   subdivision plat amendment to subdivide one existing parcel into two parcels located at 41-93 West
   3300 South with the conditions enumerated in the staff report and on the record.

   Option 2: Denial
   Move to deny the application by Roderick Enterprises, on behalf of Brighton Bank, for a preliminary
   subdivision plat amendment to subdivide one existing parcel into two parcels located at 41-93 West
   3300 South, for the reasons stated on the record.

   Option 3: Continuance
   Move to table the decision on the application by Roderick Enterprises, on behalf of Brighton Bank, for
   a preliminary subdivision plat amendment to subdivide one existing parcel into two parcels located at
   41-93 West 3300 South, to a date certain, for the reasons stated on the record and to provide the
   applicant and staff more time to provide more information as requested by the Planning Commission in
   order to make the decision.



                                                    12
Attachments:
   1. ALTA Survey
   2. Draft Plat
   3. Cross Access Easement
   4. Drainage Access and Management Easement




                                                13
ALTA Survey
                                                                          The location of the utilities shown hereon are a combination of observed evidence of utilities above
                                                                          ground appurtenances and underground plans to determine the location of any subterranean uses.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    WALTON AVE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      300 WEST
                                                                          Lacking excavation, the exact location of underground features could not be accurately, completely,




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        STATE ST.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                MAIN ST.
                                                                          and reliably depicted.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3300 SOUTH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SUE ST
                                                                          By graphic plotting only, this property is in zone(s) X (Other Flood Areas) of the Flood Insurance




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W. TEMPLE
                                                                          Rate Map, Community Panel No. 49035C0284G, which bears an Effective Date of September 25,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3335 SOUTH
                                                                          2009.


Found Street Monument                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Found Street Monument
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Main Street / 3300 South                                                                                                    3400 SOUTH
West Temple / 3300 South                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            33.0'
                                                                                                                           33.0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Round Top Brass 2"
  Round Top Brass 2"
      (15254001)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (1S1E303B)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  N. 89°53'20" E. 792.24' (BASIS OF BEARING)




                                                                                                                                                                                                  3300 SOUTH STREET
                                                                                                                           73.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                   (Public Right of Way)                                                                                            73.0'
                                      82.94'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3032 South 1030 West, Suite 202, Salt Lake City, Utah 84119
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Beginning at a point South 00 deg. 02’00” East along the West line of Lot 9, Block 16, Ten Acre Plat “A”, Big Field Survey 40.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           feet from the Northwest corner of said Lot 9, and running thence North 89 deg. 53’20” East 428.00 feet along this South right of
                                                                                                                                                              E                                                                                                                                  E                       E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           way line of 3300 South Street to the West line of 30 West Street; thence along the said West line of 30 West Street South 00
                                               POB                                                                                         WV                                                             N89°53'20"E 416.59'WV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           deg. 01’50” East 266.41 feet; thence South 89 deg. 34’53” West 218.74 feet; thence North 00 deg. 02’00” West 47.08 feet;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   T
                                                                                   T                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       thence South 89 deg. 53’20” West 209.25 feet to the East right of way line of West Temple Street; thence North 00 deg. 02’00”
                                      EAST 33.00'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  WV                                                                                                                                      West 220.50 feet to the point of beginning.
                                                                                                            N0°06'39"W 10.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           WM
                                                                                       5.0' Temp Easement -E#13229144                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Less and excepting that portion conveyed in Warranty Deed recorded March 30, 2020 as Entry No. 13229143 in
                                                                                                                                                 SIGN 2 POST: Brighton Bank                                                                                                                                    SIGN: Single Post                                                                                                                                           Book 10917, Page 6323, being more particularly described as follows:
                                                                                                                                                                                                SIGN 2 POST: Brighton Bank Center
                                                                                       N89°53'20"E 11.41'                                                                                                                                                                               Asphalt (Typical)                                                                                                                                                                  A parcel of land in fee for the intersection improvements of 3300 South Street (SR-171) and West Temple Street, known as
                                                                                                                                                                                           Asphalt (Typical)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Project No. S-R299(399), being part of an entire tract of property situate in Lot 9, Block 16, Ten Acre Plat “A”, Big Field Survey
                                                                                                                                     .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     and in the SE¼ SE¼ of Section 25, Township 1South, Range 1 West, S.L.B.&M. The boundaries of said parcel of land are
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           described as follows:
                                      (Public Right Of Way)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Beginning at the intersection of the existing Easterly right of way line of West Temple Street and the existing Southerly right of




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (Public Right of Way)
                                                                                        Asphalt (Typical)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             50.0'                                                                                                         way line of 3300 South Street (SR-171), which intersection is 40.00 feet South 00 deg. 02’00” East along the Westerly lot line
                                         WEST TEMPLE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           from the Northwest corner of said Lot 9, said intersection is also 72.96 feet South 00 deg. 02’00” East and 33.00 feet North 89
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       YD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           deg. 58’00” East from a monument found at the intersection of 3300 South Street (SR-171) and West Temple Street; and




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SUE STREET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           running thence North 89 deg. 53’20” East 11.40 feet along said existing Southerly right of way line to a point 53.00 feet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           perpendicularly distant Southerly from the 3300 South Street right of way control line opposite engineer station 15+40.50;
           S. 00°02'02" E. 4663.61'




                                                              N0°02'02"W 210.50'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           thence South 00 deg. 06’39” East 10.00 feet; thence South 89 deg. 53’20” West 11.41 feet to said existing Easterly right of way
                                                              E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           line at a point 63.00 feet perpendicularly distant Southerly from said control line opposite engineer station 15+51.91; thence
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           North 00 deg. 02’00” West 10.00 feet along said existing Easterly right of way line to the point of beginning as shown on the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           official map of said project on file in the office of the Utah Department of Transportation.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        S0°01'50"E 266.41'
                                                                                                                                                 BRIGHTON BANK


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Asphalt (Typical)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           THIS IS THE SAME LEGAL DESCRIPTION PROVIDED BY: FIRST AMERICAN TITLE INSURANCE COMPANY
                                                              T
                                                                                                                                             104,427 Sq. Ft., 2.397 Acres                                                                                                                                                                             WM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ISSUING AGENT: BACKMAN TITLE SERVICES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           COMMITMENT DATE: SEPTEMBER 17, 2020
                                                                                                                                                   15-25-477-041                                                                                                                                                                                                                            This surveyor was not provided with current zoning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           COMMITMENT NO. 5-109468 (Revised #1)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GM                                                                      classification and building setback requirements, height and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            floor space area restrictions as set forth in that classification, as
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            provided by the insurer; thus, these items are not shown
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            hereon.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GM

                                                                                                                                                                                   GM
                                                                                                                      EM                               EMEM       EM

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        WV                                                                                                                                                                          1-8.     Standard Title Exceptions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        WV
                                                                                                                            Asphalt (Typical)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       9-12 Lien of taxes, land is located within the boundaries of South Salt Lake and within the boundaries of Jordan Valley Water
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Brighton Bank, a Utah corporation
   33.0'                                       33.0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Asphalt (Typical)                                                                                                                       41-93 West 3300 South,                                     Conservancy District and within the boundaries of the Mt. Olympus Improvement District.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     WM                                                                                                                  Affects: Subject parcel. Blanket in nature, not plotted.
                                                    WV                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       South Salt Lake, UT 84115
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    13.     Right of Way Easement, and the terms and conditions thereof:
                                                     WV H Y D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Grantee: Mountain States Telephone and Telegraph Company
                                                              T
                                                                                                                                                                                                              N0°02'00"W 47.08'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Purpose: A right of way and the right to construct, operate, maintain and remove such communication line facilities.
                                                                                                                                           S89°53'20"W 209.24'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Recorded: December 29, 1916 AS Entry No.: 371283 in Book/Page: 3G/258 of Liens and Leases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Affects: the Northwesterly area of the subject parcel. Plotted and shown hereon.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    14.      Any rights, claims or title to water
                                                                                                                                            RO H SE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Affects: Subject property. Blanket in nature, not plotted.
                                                                                                                                           15-25-477-004                                                                                                                                                                                                     50.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Asphalt (Typical)                                                                                                                                                                               15.     Terms, provisions, covenants, conditions and restrictions, easements, charges, assessments and liens provided in the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              H                                                                                             Declaration of Restrictions and Grant of Easements recorded: November 9, 1978 as Entry No.: 3194546 in Book/Page:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  YD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Boundary Line
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4768/650.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S89°34'53"W 218.74'                                                                                                                        Road Center Line                                        Affects: Subject parcel. Exact location of easement could not be determined. Not plotted.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Adjacent Parcel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    16.      Abstract of Decision recorded: August 22, 1979 as Entry No.: 3326210 in Book/Page: 4928/846
                                                                                                                                                                             RO H SE                                                                               SH RO    R E S                                                                                                                                   Existing Fence                                           Affects: Subject property. Variance for front yard from 20’ to 5’ in aa C-2 and R-M Zone. Not plotted
                                                                                                                                                                            15-25-477-005                                                                          15-25-477-039                                                                                                                                    Burton Addition Subdivision Plat Lot Line
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    17.     Easement, and the terms and conditions thereof recorded: March 30, 2020 as Entry No.: 13229144 in Book/Page: 10917/6326
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Concrete                                                Affects: Northwesterly portion of the subject parcel. Plotted and shown hereon. expires after construction or 3 years after.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Curb and Gutter (C&G)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    18.     Assignment of Leases and Guaranties, The rights of tenants and any person claiming by, through and under them, Matters as
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Gas Line                                                disclosed by that certain Survey dated October 15, 2010, prepared by Dale K. Bennett, Registered Land Surveyor, License No.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            103381, Job No. 1004041A.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Telephone Line
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Affects: Subject property. Blanket in nature. not plotted.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Overhead Power
                                                                                                            This survey was requested by Ben Wheat of Roderick Enterprises for the purpose of preparing an ALTA/NSPS Survey of that entire tract defined in that Special Warranty Deed recorded July 8, 2010 as Entry
                                                                                                            No. 10986670 in Book 9839, at Page 4201 in the Office of the Salt Lake County Recorder. Said parcel of land is located in the Southeast Quarter of Section 25, Township 1 South, Range 1 West, Salt Lake                                                                                                Underground Power
                                                                                                            Base and Meridian.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Storm Drain Line
 Found Street Monument                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Set Rebar and Cap stamped "CIR ENGINEERING"
 Main Street / 3900 South                                                                                   IN addition to said vesting deed this Surveyor relied heavily on the ALTA/ACSM Survey prepared by Benchmark Engineering & Land Surveying, certified by Dale Bennett and filed as S2011-02-0095 in the
                                                                                                            Office of the Salt Lake County Surveyor. Based on field measurements, actual distances between monuments appear to differ from this survey and others in the area including that ALTA/NSPS Land Title                                                                                            Found Rebar and Cap stamped "Benchmark Eng" (Held)
  Round Top Brass 2.5"
                                                                                                            Survey prepared by Meridian Engineering and filed as S2019-08-0509 in the Office of said Recorder.                                                                                                                                                                                               Overhead Light
      (1S1W366B)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           To:   Roderick Enterpries;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Storm Drain Inlet Box's                                             First American Title Insurance Company;
                                                                                                            The basis of bearing is S. 89°53'20" E. along the monument line of 3300 South Street between the street monuments at the intersection of 3300 South / West Temple and the intersection of Main Street / 3300                                                                                                                                                         Backman Title Services, Ltd.:
                                                                                                            South.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Sign (as labeled)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    WV       Water Valve                                                   This is to certify that this map or plat and the survey on which it is based were made in accordance with the 2016 Minimum
                                                                                                                  On the date of the field survey, January 8, 2021 there was NO observable evidence of earth moving work, external building construction, or building additions.                                                                                                                                                                                           Standard Detail Requirements for ALTA/NSPS Land Title Surveys, jointly established and adopted by ALTA and NSPS, and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    H        Fire Hydrant                                                  includes items 1, 2, 3, 4, 8, 9, 11, 12, 13, 16, 17, 18, 19 of Table A thereof. The field work was completed on January 8, 2021.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        YD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        WM   Water Meter
                                                                                                                  Access to the subject property via West Temple, 3300 South, and Sue Street.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Date of Plat or Map:      February 4th, 2021
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Parking Space Count
                                                                                                                  On the date of the field survey there was no observable evidence of the site used as a solid waste dump, sump, or sanitary landfill.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Access Point

                                                                                                                  Current zoning classification and building setback requirements, height and floor space area restrictions, and parking requirements were not provided by insurer / client.                                                                                                                 Sanitary Sewer Clean Out
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Power Vault
                                                                                                                  A field delineation of wetlands conducted by a qualified specialist was not provided by the client. Therefore no delineation markers were observed in the process of conducting the field work.                                                                                       EM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Electric Meter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               02/04/2021
                                                                                                                  There are 276 regular parking spaces and 10 disabled parking spaces for a total of 286 visible parking spaces.                                                                                                                                                                             Power and Telephone Pole
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Trash Enclosure
                                                                                                                  This surveyor is unaware of any changes in street right-of-way lines, either completed or proposed at this time.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GARY CHRISTENSEN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         T   Telephone Pedestal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PLS 5152617
Draft Plat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SURVEYOR CERTIFICATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I, GARY CHRISTENSEN, do hereby certify that I am a Professional Land Surveyor in the State of Utah and that I hold




                      300 WEST




                                                                                                                                                                                    STATE ST.
                                                                        WALTON AVE




                                                                                                                                                          MAIN ST.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               License No. 5152617 in accordance with Title 58, Chapter 22, of the Professional Engineers and Land Surveyors Act; I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               further certify that by authority of the owners I have made a survey of the tract of land shown on this plat and described
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               hereon in accordance with Section 17-23-17 and have verified all measurements, and have subdivided said tract of land
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               into lots and streets, together with easements, hereafter to be known as BURTON ADDITION AMENDMENT #1 and that
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               the same has been correctly surveyed and monumented on the ground as shown on this plat.
                                                          3300 SOUTH




                                                                                                                                              SUE ST
                                                                                            W. TEMPLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Signed this         day of________            , 20
                                                                                                                                                                      3335 SOUTH



                                                                                                                       3400 SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    12/10/2021

                           VICINITY MAP
                             (N.T.S.)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    BOUNDARY DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            A parcel of land being all or part of Lots 16-19, Burton Addition recorded April 6, 1945 as Entry No. 998268 in Book J, at Page 76
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            and further described as Parcel 1 in that Special Warranty Deed recorded July 8, 2010 as Entry No. 10986670 in Book 9839, at
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Found Street Monument                                Page 4201 in the Office of the Salt Lake County Recorder. Said parcel of land is located in the Southeast Quarter of Section 25,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Main Street / 3300 South                             Township 1 South, Range 1 West, Salt Lake Base and Meridian and described as follows:
                                                                                                                                                                            33.0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    33.0'                                                                                                                                                               Round Top Brass 2"
           Found Street Monument                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (1S1E303B)                                     Beginning at the southwesterly corner of that parcel of land conveyed to the Utah Department of Transportation described in that
           West Temple / 3300 South                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        N. 89°53'20" E. 792.24' (BASIS OF BEARING)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Warranty Deed recorded March 30, 2020 as Entry No. 13229143 in Book 10917, at Page 6323 in the Office of said Recorded,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            which is 82.94 feet S. 00°02'02" E. along the monument line of West Temple and 33.00 feet East from the Street Monument at the
             Round Top Brass 2"




                                          DRAFT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            intersection of West Temple and 3300 South, Said point is also, 50.00 feet S. 00°02'00" E. from the Northwest Corner of Lot 9,
                 (15254001)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Block 16, Ten Acre Plat "A" Big Field Survey; thence along said parcel of land the following two (2) courses: 1) N. 89°53'20" E.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            11.41 feet; 2) N. 00°06'39" W. 10.00 feet to the northerly boundary line of said entire tract; thence N. 89°53'20" E. 416.60 feet along
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            the southerly right of way line of 3300 South to the westerly right of way line of Sue Street described in that Burton Addition

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3300 SOUTH STREET                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Subdivision recorded April 6, 1945 as Entry No. 998268 in Book J, at Page 76 in the Office of said Recorder; thence S. 00°01'50"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            E. 266.41 feet along said westerly right of way line to the southeasterly corner of said entire tract; thence along said entire tract
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            the following three courses: 1) S. 89°34'53" W. 218.74 feet; 2) N. 00°02'00" W. 47.08 feet; 3) S. 89°53'20" W. 209.25 feet to the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     73.0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                  easterly right of way line of West Temple; thence N. 00°01'57" W. 210.50 feet along said westerly right of way line to the Point of
                                                                                                                                                                            73.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Beginning.
                                                                         82.94'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Said parcel of land contains 104,427 sq. ft. in area or 2.397 acres more or less, 3 Lots

                                                                                                                                    N89°53'20"E 11.41'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 N89°53'20"E 25.06'
                                                                                  POB                                                                                                                                                                                    N89°53'20"E 416.59'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       262.18'                                                                                                                      18.11'                                                                                 147.91'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      OWNERS DEDICATION
                                                                                                                                                                     N0°06'39"W 10.00'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Boundary Line
                                                                         EAST 33.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           N0°00'00"E 49.61'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             25.0'                          25.0'                                                                                                                                Know by all men that these presents that, the undersigned owner Brighton Bank, a Utah corporation, of the above described
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5.00                                                                                                                                                                                          Lots




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 34.91'
                                                                                                                                                  Existing 5.0' Temp                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        tract of land to be hereafter known as
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    '                                                                                                 50.0'                                                                             Road Monument Line
                                                                                                                                               Easement -E#13229144                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            67.33
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      7'21"E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                N77°1                                                                                                                                                                                                    Adjacent Parcel                                                                                                     BURTON ADDITION AMENDMENT #1
                                                                                                                                              6.91'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      5.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Easement Line                                                       does hereby certify to have caused this plat to be prepared and does hereby dedicate for the perpetual use of the public, all
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  10.0' Storm Drain Easement                                                                                                                                                                            Original Lot Line Hereby Vacated                                    public roads and other areas shown on this plat as intended public use. The undersigned owner also hereby conveys to any and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      in favor of Lot 16B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   all public utility companies a perpetual, non-exclusive easement over the public utility easements shown on this plat, the same to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 E#          ,Bk:     , Pg:  .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              be used for the installation, maintenance, and operation of the utility lines and facilities. The undersigned owner also hereby
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Cross Access Easement                                               conveys any other easements as shown on this plat to the parties indicated and for the purposes shown hereon. Owner hereby
                                                                                                                                                                           Existing Mountain States                                                                                                    N12°56'36"E 26.77'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   conveys to South Salt Lake City and its agents a non-exclusive perpetual easement over, on, and in Lot 1 for the purpose of
                                                                                                                                                                           Telephone Right of Way                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           access to the private storm water management system(s) for the management, inspection, maintenance and repair thereof.
                                                                              WEST TEMPLE




                                                                                                                                                                              Entry No. 371283                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Road Dedication




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S0°00'00"E 175.27'
                                                                                                                                                                            Book: 3G Page: 258                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this           day of                     , 20   .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    N14°21'26"E 17.18'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            S0°01'50"E 208.80'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Set Rebar and Cap stamped "CIR ENGINEERING"                              Brighton Bank, a Utah corporation                            SHARON GARDENS, LLC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SUE STREET
                                             S. 00°02'02" E. 4663.61'




                                                                                                  N0°02'02"W 210.50'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LOT 16A
                                                                                                                         S0°02'02"E 210.50'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  236.07'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  By:                                                          By:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      N0°01'50"W 209.27'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       S0°01'50"E 452.92'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        35246 Sq. Ft.,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Print Name:                                                  Print Name:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            S0°01'50"E 266.41'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LOT 16B                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.809 Ac.                                                                                                                               Rocky Mountain Power




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    N0°17'19"E 106.02'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Title:                                                      Title:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            66503 Sq. Ft.,                                                                                                                                                                                                Address:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1. Pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 54-3-27 this plat conveys to the owner(s) or operators of utility
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    facilities a public utility easement along with all the rights and duties described therein.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.527 Acres                                                                                                                                                                                                 45 W 3300 S                                                                                                                              2. Pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 17-27a-603(4)(c)(ii) Rocky Mountain Power accepts delivery of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    the PUE as described in this plat and approves this plat solely for the purpose of confirming
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Address:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            that the plat contains public utility easements and approximates the location of the public                                                NOTARY ACKNOWLEDGMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    utility easements, but does not warrant their precise location. Rocky Mountain Power may
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               93 W 3300 S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          require other easements in order to serve this development. This approval does not affect any           State of Utah               )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    right that Rocky Mountain Power has under                                                                                           :ss
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Cross Access Easement                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (1) a recorded easement or right-of-way
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           6.5' Strip Hereby Dedicated                                                                                                                                      County of Salt Lake         )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 in favor of Lots 16A & 16B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (2) the law applicable to prescriptive rights
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                E#          ,Bk:    , Pg:   .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                to South Salt Lake City                                       (3) Title 54, Chapter 8a, Damage to Underground Utility Facilities or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1,732 Sq. Ft., 0.039 Ac.                                        (4) any other provision of law.                                                                  On this          day of              , in the year 20 , before me,                           a Notary Public, personally
                                                                                                                                              4.5' Strip Hereby Dedicated                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               N89°58'10"E 141.05'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            appeared                         the                    of             proved on the basis of satisfactory evidence to be the
                                                                                                                                                to South Salt Lake City                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Approved this       day of                           A.D. 20    ,                                     person(s) whose name(s) is/are subscribed to in the foregoing owner's dedication and consent regarding the BURTON




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      23.21'
                                                                                                                                                947 Sq. Ft., 0.021 Ac.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ADDITION AMENDMENT #1 and was signed by him/her on behalf of said                                           and acknowledged
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   By: ___________________________________________________________                                          that he/she/they executed the same.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Title: __________________________________________________________
                                     33.0'                                        33.0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        N90°00'00"W 176.92'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Commission Number                                                  Signature:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         N89°55'41"W 13.53'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Boundary Line
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               S0°01'50"E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      37.38'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            My Commission Expires                                              Print
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Dominion Energy Utah – Note withRight-of-Way
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Road    NO existing (ROW)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             natural gas easement                                                                                                              Name:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 26.80'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                  204.74'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                N0°02'00"W 47.08'




                                                                                                                                                                                                      S89°53'20"W 209.24'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Questar Gas Company, dba Dominion        Road
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Energy Center     Lineapproves this plat solely for the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Utah, hereby
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               A Notary Public Commissioned in Utah
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                purposes of confirming that the plat contains public utility easements. Dominion Energy Utah may
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                require additional easements in orderSection          Line
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          to serve this  development. This approval does not constitute
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S89°55'41"E 161.44'                                                                                                                            abrogation or waiver of any other existing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Adjacent Parcel or liabilities including prescriptive rights
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              rights,  obligations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      50.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                       RO HANSEN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                and other rights, obligations or liabilities provided by law or equity. This approval does not constitute
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               NOTARY ACKNOWLEDGMENT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      30.37'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                acceptance, approval or acknowledgement  Buildingof anySetbacks
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         terms contained in the plat, including those set
                                                                                                                                                                                                      15-25-477-004                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          25.0'                           25.0'              forth in the Owner Dedication or in the Notes, and does not constitute a guarantee of particular
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         P.U.E.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                terms or conditions of natural gas service.         furtherEasements
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               For and      information please contact Dominion Energy      State of Utah               )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Utah's Right-of-Way Department at 800-366-8532
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        212.24'                                                                                                                                                                                  Street Monument to be Set                                                                              :ss
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            County of Salt Lake         )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S89°34'53"W 218.74'                                                                                                                                             QUESTAR GAS COMPANY Set Rebar and Cap stamped "CIR PLS 5152617"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                dba DOMINION ENERGY UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            On this          day of              , in the year 20 , before me,                           a Notary Public, personally
              Found Street Monument                                                                                                                                                                                                        RO HANSEN                                                                                                                                                  SHARON GARDENS                                                                                                                                                                            Approved this           day of                  , 20                                                        appeared                         the                    of             proved on the basis of satisfactory evidence to be the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            person(s) whose name(s) is/are subscribed to in the foregoing owner's dedication and consent regarding the BURTON
              Main Street / 3900 South                                                                                                                                                                                                    15-25-477-005                                                                                                                                               15-25-477-039                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Sheet                    ADDITION AMENDMENT #1 and was signed by him/her on behalf of said                                           and acknowledged
               Round Top Brass 2.5"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             By:                                                                                                         that he/she/they executed the same.
                   (1S1W366B)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Title:                                                                                                      Commission Number                                                  Signature:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            My Commission Expires                                              Print
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Name:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Sheets

DEVELOPER:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     A Notary Public Commissioned in Utah
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Prepared By:
Roderick Enterprises                                                                                                        JORDAN VALLEY WATER                                                                             MT. OLYMPUS IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT                                                                                                     SOUTH SALT LAKE FIRE MARSHAL                                                                                                   RECORD OF SURVEY
Ben Wheat                                                                                                                   CONSERVANCY DISTRICT                                                                        Approved this            day of                       A.D., 20                    ,                              Approved this         day of                                                                                        A.D., 20    ,
801-891-6596
                                                                                        Approved this                                                  day of                                   A.D., 20     .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         by the South Salt Lake City Fire Department.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 R.O.S. No:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BURTON ADDITION AMENDMENT #1
benw@roderickrealty.com
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               AMENDING A PORTION OF LOT 16 & ALL OF LOTS 17-19 BURTON ADDITION
OWNER:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              & ADDITIONAL LANDS
Brighton Bank, a Utah Corporation                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LOCATED IN THE SOUTHEAST QUARTER OF SECTION 25,
93 West 3300 South                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           10718 SOUTH BECKSTEAD LANE, STE. 102                                                            TOWNSHIP 1 SOUTH, RANGE 1 WEST, SALT LAKE BASE & MERIDIAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Mt. Olympus Improvement District                                            Date                                                      South Salt Lake Fire Marshal                                                                   Date            County Surveyor Reviewer                                                                                Date                               SOUTH JORDAN, UT 84095 - PH: 801-949-6296
Salt Lake City, Utah                                                                    Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District                                                                           Date                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH


                      COMCAST                                                                                                                                          SALT LAKE COUNTY                                                               SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY                                                                                                                            SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY ENGINEER                                                                                         APPROVAL AS TO FORM                                                                                                            CITY APPROVAL                                                                                     SALT LAKE COUNTY RECORDER
                                                                                                                                                                      HEALTH DEPARTMENT                                                             COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Presented to the Planning Commission this           day of              A.D. 20       at which time
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Recorded #
    Approved this           day of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I hereby certify that this office has examined this plat and it is correct in                                Approved as to form this                                              day of                                                                                                                                                          State of Utah, County of Salt Lake, recorded and filed at the request of
    A.D., 20      .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              accordance with information on file in this office.                                                          A.D., 20     .                                                                                                          this subdivision was approved and accepted
                                                                                                                            Approved this      day of                                                              A.D., 20              Approved as to form this    day of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         A.D., 20     .
                                                                                                                            by the Salt Lake County Health Department.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Date:           Time:           Book:                   Page:



                      Comcast                                                                                                                                          Director, Health Department                                             Community Development Director                                            Date                                                                             South Salt Lake City Engineer                                       Date                                                               South Salt Lake City Attorney                                        City Approval                        Attest: City Recorder                             SEAL                   Fee $                                      Deputy, Salt Lake County Recorder
Cross Access
 Easement
Drainage Access
& Management
   Easement
