                                                          AGENDA
                                            PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
                                                  Thursday, June 1, 2023
                                             South Salt Lake Community Center
                                                    2531 South 400 East
                                                         Room 101

                   PLANNING COMMISSION WORK MEETING AT 5:30 P.M.

                      •   Planning Commission Training
                             a. LUDMA
                             b. Housing
                             c. Water
 JONATHAN                    d. Transportation
WEIDENHAMER

COMMUNITY &
                   PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING AT 7:30 P.M.
 ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT
                   Pledge of Allegiance:   Stacey Holscher
  DIRECTOR
                   Approve Agenda:         Jeremy Carter


                   STAFF BUSINESS – INFORMATION ITEMS

                      •   Code Update


                   NEW BUSINESS

                   1. PUBLIC HEARING
                      A petition for preliminary subdivision plat amendment approval to amend a three-lot
                      plat.
                      ACTION ITEM
                      Applicant:    C.W. Urban, Ian Cahoon, Representative
                      Address:      3798, 3802, and 3838 South 700 East

                   2. PUBLIC MEETING
                      A petition to the Planning Commission to approve a Conditional Use Permit, to establish
                      a Home Occupation, Category II at the dwelling located at 2917 South Adams Street.
                      ACTION ITEM
                      Applicant:     Robert Wilson
                      Address:       2917 South Adams Street

                   3. PUBLIC MEETING
                      A petition to the Planning Commission to approve a Conditional Use Permit, to establish
CHERIE WOOD           a Child Care Center located at 3200 South 700 East.
    MAYOR             ACTION ITEM
220 E MORRIS AVE      Applicant:     Aardvark Solutions, INC., Jensen Dobbs, Representative
     SUITE 200        Address:       3200 South 700 East
SOUTH SALT LAKE
       UTAH
       84115
 O 801.483.6000
  F 801.483.6001       IN COMPLIANCE WITH THE AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT, INDIVIDUALS NEEDING AUXILIARY
    SSLC.GOV        COMMUNICATIVE AIDS OR OTHER SERVICES FOR THIS MEETING SHOULD CONTACT ELIZA UNGRICHT, (801)
MAYOR@SSLC.GOV                              483-6013, GIVING AT LEAST 24 HOURS NOTICE.
South Salt Lake Planning Commission Regular Meeting                                           June 1, 2023 Page 2

                    CONTINUING BUSINESS

                      None at this time


                    PLANNING COMMISSION BUSINESS

                      Approval of the April 20, 2023 Planning Commission Minutes
                      ACTION ITEM



                 Join Zoom Webinar
                 Planning Commission - June 1

                 Please click the link below to join the webinar:
                 https://zoom.us/j/94179547536?pwd=TnUxcTkzQjR0QmUxK0Rxd0JQaWRzUT09
                 Passcode: 198269

                 Or One tap mobile :
                   +12532050468,,94179547536# US
                   +12532158782,,94179547536# US (Tacoma)

                 Or Telephone:
                   Dial (for higher quality, dial a number based on your current location):
                   +1 253 205 0468 US
                   +1 253 215 8782 US (Tacoma)
                   +1 346 248 7799 US (Houston)
                   +1 669 444 9171 US
                   +1 669 900 6833 US (San Jose)
                   +1 719 359 4580 US
                   +1 312 626 6799 US (Chicago)
                   +1 360 209 5623 US
                   +1 386 347 5053 US
                   +1 507 473 4847 US
                   +1 564 217 2000 US
                   +1 646 931 3860 US
                   +1 689 278 1000 US
                   +1 929 205 6099 US (New York)
                   +1 301 715 8592 US (Washington DC)
                   +1 305 224 1968 US
                   +1 309 205 3325 US
                 Webinar ID: 941 7954 7536
                   International numbers available: https://zoom.us/u/asTZIkHl3
                               PLANNING COMMISSION STAFF REPORT

MEETING DATE:     June 1, 2023
REQUEST:          A petition for preliminary subdivision plat amendment approval to amend a three-lot plat.
ADDRESS:          3798 South 700 East, 3802 South 700 East; and 3838 South 700 East
PARCEL NUMBER(S): 16-31-429-006; 007; 008; 009; 010; 011; 019; 024
PROPERTY OWNER: Medical Leasing LTD
APPLICANT:        C.W. Urban, Ian Cahoon, Representative
TYPE OF ITEM:     Administrative – Preliminary Subdivision Plat Approval

 STAFF RECOMMENDATION:
 Staff recommends the Planning Commission hold a public hearing and approve a preliminary subdivision plat
 amendment to amend an existing three-lot subdivision located at 3798 South, 3802 South, and 3838 South
 700 East. Staff’s recommendation is based upon its analysis and findings included below.

 SYNOPSIS:
 On February 6, 2023, Ian Cahoon, representing C.W. Urban submitted a plat amendment application. As part
 of the C.W. Urban redevelopment to the west, they are required to amend the Center Square Subdivision plat,
 which is owned by Medical Leasing LTD. The proposed shared drive approach on the western boundary of Lot
 1 was not tied to a property owner, address, or plat. The purpose of amending this plat to add the “null parcel”
 into Lot 1 of the Center Square Subdivision plat.

  The          subject
 properties currently
 have two medical
 office buildings and
 a strip mall.

 The       Planning
 Commission is the
 Land Use Authority
 on all subdivision
 plat   applications
 and amendments.




                           EXISTING
 EXISTING ZONING                                LOT SIZES                      PROPERTY ACCESS
                             USES
                                             Lot 1 – 2.95 acres
                         Medical Office                                              700 East
      Mixed Use                              Lot 2 – 2.47 acres
                            Retail                                                  3900 South
                                             Lot 3 – 1.17 acres

                                                        1
                             PLANNING COMMISSION STAFF REPORT

GENERAL INFORMATION:

Location:                         3798 South 700 East
                                  3802 South 700 East
                                  3838 South 700 East

Lot Sizes:                        Lot 1 – 2.95 acres
                                  Lot 2 – 2.47 acres
                                  Lot 3 – 1.17 acres
                                  Total – 6.59 acres

Surrounding Land Use Districts:   North: Mixed Use and R1 Single Family
                                  South: R-2-10 (Medium Density Residential Zone – Millcreek)
                                  East: R-M (Residential Multi Zone – Millcreek)
                                  West: Mixed Use and School (Granite Peaks Adult Education serves adult
                                  learners via teaching English classes, GED preparation, adult high
                                  school diploma courses, etc.)

Figure 1: Existing Zoning




                                                   2
Figure 2: Existing Site Conditions




                                     3
Figure 3: Applicant’s Preliminary Plat **Full Preliminary Plat in attachments**




Figure 4: Site Plan




                                                      4
PLANNING COMMISSION AUTHORITY:

17.11.030. Land use authority designations.
Pursuant to state law, the following administrative land use authority designations are made:

  A.   Planning Commission. The planning commission is the land use authority on issues of: subdivision and
       subdivision plat approval, vacating, altering or amending a Subdivision Plat; Conditional Use permit
       Applications; design review for Building Heights as established in this Title; design review for projects
       on Parcels where any portion of the Parcel abuts any residential district; and the issuance of a Building
       or demolition permit in a Historic and Landmark district.


GENERAL PLAN CONSIDERATIONS:

Land Use & Neighborhoods Strategy 6.2. Maintain residential, business and industrial areas that are vibrant
and where the health and safety of all are protected.

       Analysis: The current buildings will remain in place, which include medical offices and commercial and
       retail uses. One the tenants of the buildings is Salt Lake Behavioral Health, which specialized in mental
       health and substance abuse treatment programs. Other tenants in the buildings are a pain clinic and a
       cancer specialist. This area consists of specialized medical treatment offices, which benefit residents within
       South Salt Lake and outside of the city boundaries.

Economic Development Strategy 2.4. Improve mixed-uses to attract a wide variety of customers and visitors

       Analysis: The proposed subdivision plat amendment will clean up a null parcel, but it will also benefit a
       potential development to the west that will create 56 new housing units, which will bring new residents
       and businesses to South Salt Lake. There will be 19 units in the proposed townhome development that
       will be live/work units, which will help encourage and bring in neighborhood-based retail that will benefit
       all the residents in the area. The current buildings will remain in place, which include medical offices and
       commercial and retail uses. This block will also have a range of uses that will attract people from inside
       and outside of the city.

Economic Development Strategy 7.5. Continue to support and attract diverse range of businesses and
industries.

       Analysis: The proposed subdivision plat amendment will clean up a null parcel, but it will also benefit a
       potential development to the west that will create 56 new housing units, which will bring new residents
       and businesses to South Salt Lake. There will be 19 live/work units in the proposed townhome
       development, which will help encourage and bring in neighborhood-based retail that will benefit all the
       residents in the area. The current buildings will remain in place, which include medical offices and
       commercial and retail uses. This block will also have a range of uses that will attract people from inside
       and outside of the city.

ORDINANCE ANALYSIS:


                Ordinance                                  Complies                        Notes / Insufficiency
                                   Title 17 – Land Use and Development
17.10.150 – Subdivision and Condominium Plat Layout Requirements
A. Roads shall be graded to City            Not applicable. All existing
   standards; access shall minimize         infrastructure will remain in place.
   conflict of movement of different


                                                         5
   types of traffic; proposed streets
   extend to boundary.

B. All subdivisions must have frontage      The subdivision fronts along 700 East    The cross access
   on and access from an existing street;   and 3900 South. The existing curb cuts   agreement shall be
   subdivisions using existing street       will remain in place. There will be a    recorded with the Salt
   frontage shall suitably improve the      cross access agreement in place for      Lake County Recorders
   road; all streets must integrate into    the three lots in the subdivision.       officer prior to the mylar
   the streets masterplan; streets shall                                             plat being recorded.
   be configured to address specific
   current and future traffic generators.
C. Street lights shall be placed            Per the SSL Engineer, new and/or
   according to SSL Design Standards,       additional street lights are not
   as approved by the City Engineer.        required for this project.
D. Roads shall comply with SSL design       Not applicable.
   standards Construction Specifications
   and Standard Drawings, and Streets
   Master Plan.
E. All Structures must meet the             Not applicable.
   requirements of Appendix D of the
   International Fire Code in effect in the
   state of Utah.
F. The minimum curb radius for all          Not applicable.
   intersections is 28 feet.
G. The applicant shall be required to       Per the City Engineer, no right of way
   dedicate and improve such areas          dedications are required along 3900
   along the Right-of-Way.                  South and 700 East.
17.10.160(A) - Drainage and Storm Sewers General Requirements
A. Each plat shall make adequate            Adequate provision for storm or flood
   provision for storm or flood water       water runoff is provided per SSL
   runoff.                                  Engineering review.
17.10.160(B) – Nature of Stormwater Facilities
A. Upon recommendation of the City          Not applicable per Engineering
   Engineer, applicants may be required review.
   to carry away by pipe or open channel
   any spring or surface water that may
   exist either previously to or because
   of the subdivision.
B. Adequate underground stormwater          Adequate underground storm water
   systems shall be constructed and         systems are provided per Engineering
   maintained.                              review.
C. Accommodation of Upstream                Not applicable.
   Drainage Areas.
D. Adequate storm / flood water             Adequate storm and flood water
   drainage will be provided to an          drainage is provided per Engineering
   approved drainage watercourse or         review.
   facility with capacity.
E. Areas of poor drainage shall be          Not applicable. All existing
   remediated as applicable.                infrastructure will remain in place.
F. Flood plain areas shall be preserved     No flood plain areas exist to be
   upon recommendation of City              preserved upon recommendation of
   Engineer when necessary for the          the South Salt Lake City Engineer.
   health, safety, or welfare of the
   population of the area.

                                                      6
17.10.170 - Water Facilities
A. Applicant shall extend public culinary     Adequate water supply provisions are
   water supply-system for the purpose        proposed per SSL Engineering review
   of providing an adequate water-            and the Jordan Valley Water
   supply to the Plat                         Conservancy will serve letter.
B. Applicant shall install adequate water     There are adequate fire hydrants
   facilities including fire hydrants.        throughout the project area per the
                                              Deputy Fire Marshall.
C. Fire flow shall be approved by the         A fire flow test was not required per
   Fire Marshal.                              the Deputy Fire Marshal review.
D. Water main extensions shall meet the       Not applicable. All existing
   City’s standards.                          infrastructure will remain in place.
E. Location of all fire hydrants, all water   The location of all fire hydrants, all
   and storage supply improvements            water and storage supply
   shall be shown on the Final Site Plan.     improvements, and the boundary lines
                                              of proposed districts, indicating all
                                              improvements proposed to be served
                                              are shown on the final site plan.
F. A determination shall be made as to        Not applicable. There are no facilities
   location or extent of facilities to be     at this location to be maintained by
   maintained by South Salt Lake City.        South Salt Lake City.
G. Fire hydrants required for all plats.      There are adequate fire hydrants
                                              throughout the project area per the
                                              Deputy Fire Marshall.
17.10.180 - Sewer Facilities
A. General Requirements. Applicant shall      A will serve letter has been submitted
   install sanitary sewer facilities in a     from Mt. Olympus Improvement
   manner prescribed by the applicable        District.
   sanitary sewer authority.
17.10.190 – Utilities
A. Utility facilities shall be located    All new utilities are shown to be
   underground in new subdivisions.       underground.
B. Easements. Easements centered on       A 10’ PUE has been placed along the
   Rear Lot Lines shall be provided for   edge of the subdivision, where no
   private and municipal utilities.       existing structures are. This has been
                                          reviewed and approved by the City
                                          Engineer.
17.10.200 - Sidewalks, Trails, and Bike Paths
A. Subdivision shall comply with the      Current right of way improvements
   applicable road profile.               along 3900 South include curb/gutter,
                                          a park strip of approximately three
                                          feet, and a five-foot sidewalk. Current
                                          right of way improvements along 700
                                          East include curb/gutter, a park strip
                                          of approximately four and a half feet,
                                          and a four-foot sidewalk. All existing
                                          infrastructure will remain in place.
B. Trails, pedestrian paths, and bike     Public and internal pathways relate
   paths shall relate appropriately to    appropriately to topography on the
   topography.                            site and comply with South Salt Lake
                                          code.
C. Trails, pedestrian paths, and bike     The Trails Master Plan does not
   paths shall be provided in accordance include any facilities adjacent to the
   with the Trails Master Plan.           subject property.

                                                        7
STAFF RECOMMENDATION:
Based upon the information submitted in the application, supporting documentation, and analysis of the
relevant code sections and general plan goals, Staff recommends the Planning Commission move to approve,
with conditions, the preliminary subdivision plat amendment and proposes the following findings of fact and
conclusions of law and conditions of approval:

Findings of Fact:

  1.   On February 6, 2023, Ian Cahoon, on behalf of C.W. Urban submitted a plat amendment application.

  2.   The application was submitted by C.W. Urban, due to their proposed to the west having a shared drive
       approach, and effecting the subject subdivision plat.

  3.   The subject properties, located at 3789, 3802, and 3838 South 700 East, consist of three separate lots.

  4.   The subject properties are owned by Medical Leasing LTD.

  5.   The subject properties are located in the Mixed Use land use district.

  6.   The subject properties are developed and have medical offices and commercial and retail spaces.

  7.   The proposed subdivision will consolidate the null parcel into Lot 1, located at 3838 South 700 East.

  8.   The proposed subdivision will amend the three-lot subdivision and will be a total of 6.59 acres in size.

  9.   The proposed subdivision is directly tied to the townhome development that is being proposed directly
       west of this subdivision.

  10. All existing buildings and infrastructure will remain in place.

Conclusions of Law:

  1.   The subdivision, as specifically conditioned below, is consistent with the South Salt Lake City General Plan.

  2.   The subdivision, as specifically conditioned below is compatible in use, scale, and design with the allowed
       uses in Commercial Corridor.

  3.   The subdivision as specifically conditioned below, does not compromise the health, safety, or welfare of:
       Persons employed within or using the proposed development; Those residing or working in the vicinity of
       the proposed use or development; or Property or improvements in the vicinity of the proposed use or
       development.

  4.   The subdivision, as specifically conditioned below does not impose disproportionate burdens on the
       citizens of the city.

  5.   Staff has reviewed this subdivision for compliance with SSL Municipal Code Sections: 17.10.130,
       17.10.140, 17.10.150, 17.10.160, 17.10.170, 17.10.180, 17.10.190, 17.10.200, and 17.10.300, and found
       that this subdivision is compliant with those sections, as outlined above.

  6.   The subdivision, will allow for a shared drive approach on the western boundary of the subdivision, which
       will allow the proposed development to the west use it as one of their access points.




                                                        8
Conditions of Approval:

  1.   The applicant shall record the cross access easement with the Salt Lake County Recorder’s office prior to
       the recording of mylar;

  2.   The applicant will continue to work with City staff to make all technical corrections necessary prior to
       recording;

  3.   Prior to plat recordation and any additional development of the subsequent lots, the applicant must
       provide city staff the final plat mylar to include notarized signatures of owners’ consent to dedication;
       obtain signatures of all entities indicated on the subdivision plat attached hereto;

  4.   The applicant shall complete (or post an adequate improvement completion assurance), warrant and post
       required warranty assurance for all required landscaping and public infrastructure improvements;

  5.   The applicant shall ensure that all site improvements are installed consistent with the requirements of the
       South Salt Lake City Municipal Code;

  6.   The applicant shall dedicate an easement to the City of South Salt for purposes of storm water
       management practices and ensure the plat includes language of the dedication of such easement, in a
       form as approved by the City Attorney’s Office;

  7.   All items of the staff report.


PLANNING COMMISSION OPTIONS:


Option 1: Approval
Move to approve the application by C.W. Urban for a preliminary subdivision plat amendment for a three-lot
subdivision at the subject properties located at 3798, 3802, 3838 South 700 East, with the conditions enumerated
in the staff report and stated on the record.

Option 2: Denial
Move to deny the application by C.W. Urban for a preliminary subdivision plat amendment for a three-lot
subdivision at the subject properties located at 3798, 3802, 3838 South 700 East, with the conditions enumerated
in the staff report and stated on the record.

Option 3: Continuance
Move to table the decision on the application by C.W. Urban for a preliminary subdivision plat amendment for a
three-lot subdivision at the subject properties located at 3798, 3802, 3838 South 700 East, to a date certain to
allow the Applicant and Staff time to respond to specific inquires or concerns raised by the Planning Commission,
or to allow the Planning Commission more time to consider the proposal.

Attachments:
   1. Proposed Preliminary Subdivision Plat Amendment




                                                        9
                                                                                                                                                                                                   SURVEYOR'S CERTIFICATE:



                                     CENTER SQUARE SUBDIVISION - AMENDMENT A
                                                             AMENDING LOTS 1, 2 & 3
                                                            LOCATED IN THE SOUTHEAST QUARTER OF SECTION 31
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I E W
                                                               AND THE SOUTHWEST QUARTER OF SECTION 32,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EV
                                                                    TOWNSHIP 1 SOUTH, RANGE 1 EAST,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                R   R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Willis D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Long
                                                                     SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN,
                                                             SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH                                                                                                                                   F O 10708886




                                                                                                                                                                                                   BOUNDARY DESCRIPTION:




                                                                       VICINITY MAP




                                                                           PROJECT
                                                                           LOCATION



                                                                                                                                                                                                   OWNERS DEDICATION:


                                                                                                                                                                                                          CENTER SQUARE SUBDIVISION - AMENDMENT A




STORMWATER NOTE:



                                                                                                                                                                                                   NOTARY ACKNOWLEDGEMENT:




                                                                                                                                                                                     ENGINEERING
ROCKY MOUNTAIN POWER NOTES:

                                                                                                LUMEN                     RECORD OF SURVEY




                                                                                                                                                                     JT Engineering, PC
                                                                                                                                                                      7886 South 2325 East
                                                                                                                                                                       South Weber, Utah
                                                                                                                                                                      Mobile 801.866.7702

              DOMINION ENERGY UTAH   ROCKY MOUNTAIN POWER    PLANNING COMMISSION                   SALT LAKE COUNTY
                                                                                                     HEALTH DEPT
                                                                                                                                 SOUTH SALT LAKE
                                                                                                                                  FIRE MARSHAL
                                                                                                                                                           SOUTH SALT LAKE
                                                                                                                                                            CITY ENGINEER                                 CENTER SQUARE SUBDIVISION
                                                                                                                                                                                                               AMENDMENT A
                                                                                                                                                                                                           LOCATED IN THE SOUTHEAST QUARTER OF SECTION 31,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TOWNSHIP 1 SOUTH, RANGE 1 EAST,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN,
                                                                                                                                                                                                             SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH

                                     JORDAN VALLEY WATER        MOUNT OLYMPUS                 SOUTH SALT LAKE COMMUNITY        APPROVAL AS TO FORM   SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY APPROVAL                 RECORDER #                                        .
                                     CONSERVANCY DISTRICT    IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT                   DEVELOPMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 of



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LEGEND & ABBREVIATIONS:


                                                                                  CENTER SQUARE SUBDIVISION - AMENDMENT A
                                                                                                                           AMENDING LOT 1
                                                                                                                   LOCATED IN THE SOUTHEAST QUARTER OF SECTION 31
                                                                                                                      AND THE SOUTHWEST QUARTER OF SECTION 32,
                                                                                                                           TOWNSHIP 1 SOUTH, RANGE 1 EAST,
                                                                                                                            SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN,
                                                                                                                    SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH


                                                                                                                       3300 SOUTH




                                                                                    610 EAST




                                                                                                                                                645 EAST
                                                          DANIEL SUAREZ                         GARY R. PFEIFFER       CAROLYN D PEED                      MAGGIE MAE STEVENSON           PHYLLIS B. NELSON LLC

                                             3785 SOUTH


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 NOTES:
           MEDICAL LEASING LIMITED




                                                                                                                                                                         LOT 3




                                           LOT 2




                                                                                                                            LOT 2
           GRANITE SCHOOL DISTRICT
500 EAST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    700 EAST
                                     CW the MONROE




                                                                          CW the MONROE


                                                                                                                                                                                  RING FAMILY LIMITED PARTNERSHIP
                                                                                                                                        LOT 1
                                     LINE TABLE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ENGINEERING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            JT Engineering, PC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            7886 South 2325 East

                                                                                               BASIS OF BEARINGS
                                                                                                                       3900 SOUTH                                                                                                                            South Weber, Utah
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Mobile 801.866.7702


                                                                                                                                                                                                                    RECORDER #                          .

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     of



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2
                                 PLANNING COMMISSION STAFF REPORT

   GENERAL INFORMATION:

          Location:                        2917 S Adams St
          Property Size:                   0.27 Acres
          Surrounding Land Uses:           North: R-1 Residential
                                           South: R-1 Residential
                                           East: Vacant
                                           West: R-1 Residential


Figure 1: Existing Parcel Boundary Lines




Figure 2: Existing Conditions




                                                     2
PLANNING COMMISSION AUTHORITY:

17.11.030. Land Use Authority Designations.
Pursuant to state law, the following administrative land use authority designations are made:

   A. Planning Commission. The Planning Commission is the land use authority on issues of: Subdivision
      and Subdivision Plat approval; vacating, the altering or amending a Subdivision Plat; Conditional
      Use permit Applications; design review for Building Heights as established in this Title; design review
      for projects on Parcels where any portion of the Parcel abuts any residential district; and the
      issuance of a Building or demolition permit in a Historic and Landmark district.


CONDITIONAL USE REVIEW STANDARD:

Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-507(2) sets forth the following standard of review for conditional uses by
stating:

    (a)      (i)    A land use authority shall approve a conditional use if reasonable conditions are
                    proposed, or can be imposed, to mitigate the reasonably anticipated detrimental
                    effects of the proposed use in accordance with applicable standards.
             (ii)   The requirement described in Subsection (2)(a)(i) to reasonably mitigate
                    anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed conditional use does not require
                    elimination of the detrimental effects.
    (b)     If a land use authority proposes reasonable conditions on a proposed conditional use, the
            land use authority shall ensure that the conditions are stated on the record and reasonably
            relate to mitigating the anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use.
    (c)     If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use cannot
            be substantially mitigated by the proposal or the imposition of reasonable conditions to
            achieve compliance with applicable standards, the land use authority may deny the
            conditional use.


GENERAL PLAN CONSIDERATIONS:

Land Use & Neighborhoods #1: Continue to welcome new residents and businesses into South Salt Lake.

       Analysis: Home occupations are welcoming to both residents and businesses. They increase
resident and homeowner property rights while simultaneously enabling greater diversification of the pool
of goods and services offered in the city.

Environmental, Social, & Economic Sustainability #1: Reduce vehicle miles traveled and improve air
quality.

       Analysis: The permittance of home occupations enables city residents to make a living or
supplement their income from home, reducing total vehicle miles traveled via the elimination of work-
related commuting. Home occupations also have the potential of bringing services closer to residents.




                                                      3
STAFF RECOMMENDATION:

Staff recommends approval of the conditional use permit for a Category II Home Occupation at 2917 S
Adams Street with the proposed conditions of approval based on the following findings of fact and
conclusions of law:

 Findings of Fact:

   1. On April 19, 2023, the applicant applied for a Conditional Use Permit for a Category II Home
      Occupation for the dwelling at 2917 S Adams St.

   2. The purpose of the application is to permit the lawful operation of a musical instrument crafting and
      repair business at the subject property.

   3. A home occupation that involves customers and clients visiting the dwelling would be classified as
      a Category II Home Occupation per Title 17’s Land Use Matrix.

   4. SSLC Code Section 17.01 defines a Home Occupation, Category II as “any business carried on
      entirely within a Dwelling by occupants of such Dwelling that is clearly incidental and secondary to
      the Residential Use of the Dwelling, has no outside impacts on the neighborhood in which it is
      located, and does not change the character of the Dwelling or the neighborhood in which it is
      located. Home Occupation, Category II includes clients/customers going to the Dwelling.”

   5. The previous use of the subject property was a single-family dwelling without a home occupation as
      a secondary use.

   6. Redevelopment of a property requires all current municipal codes to apply to the proposal,
      including development standards, use standards, and design standards.

   7. The subject property is in the R-1 land use district.

   8. SSLC Code Section 17.03, classifies a Home Occupation, Category II as a Conditional Use in the R-1
      land use district, triggering the need for a Conditional Use Permit.

   9. The Planning Commission is the land use authority over all conditional use permits.

   10. The subject property is 0.27 acres in size.

   11. The subject property is a legally subdivided lot.

   12. SSLC Code Section 17.06.040 requires, prior to issuance of a Building Permit, that all new
       Development activity be on a legal Lot.

   13. The subject property has vehicular and pedestrian access along S Adams Street.

   14. The subject property has 83 feet of frontage along S Adams Street.

Conclusions of Law:

   1.   The use, as specifically conditioned below, is consistent with the South Salt Lake City General Plan.

   2.   The use, as specifically conditioned below, is compatible in use, scale, and design with allowed

                                                       7
         uses in the R-1 use district.

    3.   The use, as specifically conditioned below, does not compromise the health, safety, or welfare of
         persons employed within or using the proposed development nor those residing or working in
         the vicinity of the proposed use; nor does the proposed compromise Development, Property, or
         improvements in the vicinity of the proposed use or development.

    4.   The use, as specifically conditioned below, does not impose disproportionate burdens on the citizens
         of the city.

 Conditions of Approval:

   1. The applicant shall retain one off-street parking stall for client use.

   2. Use of open space for the proposed use would not be allowed as all home occupations must
      occur entirely within the dwelling.

   3. The applicant will manage noise to not create any nuisance for surrounding property owners.

   4. Customers and Clients shall be served by appointment only and within the hours of 7 am to 8 pm.


PLANNING COMMISSION OPTIONS:

Option 1: Approval
Move to approve the application for a Conditional Use Permit for a Category II Home Occupation at the subject
property located at 2917 South Adams Street, with the conditions enumerated in the staff report and stated on the
record.

Option 2: Denial
Move to deny the application for a Conditional Use Permit for a Category II Home Occupation at the subject property
located at 2917 South Adams Street, with the conditions enumerated in the staff report and stated on the record.

Option 3: Continuance
Move to table the decision on the application for a Conditional Use Permit for a Category II Home Occupation at the
subject property located at 2917 South Adams Street, to a date certain to allow the Applicant and Staff time to
respond to specific inquires or concerns raised by the Planning Commission, or to allow the Planning Commission
more time to consider the proposal.

 Attachments:
    1. Conditional Use Permit
    2. Business License Application




                                                          8
 WHEN RECORDED PLEASE RETURN TO:

 SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY
 220 E. MORRIS AVE SUITE 200
 SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84115


                                    CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT

 Location: 2917 S Adams St
 Use: Category II Home Occupation
 Zone: R-1 Residential
 APN: 16-30-254-045-0000
 Fee Title Owner: Denny M. Aldridge; Robert A. Wilson (JT)
 File Number: 2320040
 Date: June 1, 2023


Permit Issued to:     Aardvark Solutions, INC

Findings of Fact:

   1. On April 19, 2023, the applicant applied for a Conditional Use Permit for a Category II Home
      Occupation for the dwelling at 2917 S Adams St.

   2. The purpose of the application is to permit the lawful operation of a musical instrument
      crafting and repair business at the subject property.

   3. A home occupation that involves customers and clients visiting the dwelling would be
      classified as a Category II Home Occupation per Title 17’s Land Use Matrix.

   4. SSLC Code Section 17.01 defines a Home Occupation, Category II as “any business carried
      on entirely within a Dwelling by occupants of such Dwelling that is clearly incidental and
      secondary to the Residential Use of the Dwelling, has no outside impacts on the
      neighborhood in which it is located, and does not change the character of the Dwelling or
      the neighborhood in which it is located. Home Occupation, Category II includes
      clients/customers going to the Dwelling.”

   5. The previous use of the subject property was a single-family dwelling without a home
      occupation as a secondary use.

   6. Redevelopment of a property requires all current municipal codes to apply to the proposal,
      including development standards, use standards, and design standards.

   7. The subject property is in the R-1 land use district.

                                                 1
   8. SSLC Code Section 17.03, classifies a Home Occupation, Category II as a Conditional Use in
      the R-1 land use district, triggering the need for a Conditional Use Permit.

   9. The Planning Commission is the land use authority over all conditional use permits.

   10. The subject property is 0.27 acres in size.

   11. The subject property is a legally subdivided lot.

   12. SSLC Code Section 17.06.040 requires, prior to issuance of a Building Permit, that all new
       Development activity be on a legal Lot.

   13. The subject property has vehicular and pedestrian access along S Adams Street.

   14. The subject property has 83 feet of frontage along S Adams Street.


Conclusions of Law:

   1. The use, as specifically conditioned below, is consistent with the South Salt Lake City General
      Plan.

   2. The use, as specifically conditioned below, is compatible in use, scale, and design with
      allowed uses in the R-1 land use district.

   3. The use, as specifically conditioned below, does not compromise the health, safety, or
      welfare of: Persons employed within or using the proposed development; Those residing or
      working in the vicinity of the proposed use or development; or Property or improvements in
      the vicinity of the proposed use or development.

   4. The use, as specifically conditioned below, does not impose disproportionate burdens on
      the citizens of the city.


Conditions of Approval:

   1. The applicant shall retain one off-street parking stall for client use.

   2. Use of open space for the proposed use would not be allowed as all home occupations
      must occur entirely within the dwelling.

   3. The applicant will manage noise to not create any nuisance for surrounding property
      owners.

   4. Customers and Clients shall be served by appointment only and within the hours of 7 am

                                                     2
      to 8 pm.


Exhibits (available on file with South Salt Lake City Community Development Department):

EXHIBIT A: CUP Application
EXHIBIT B: Property Affidavit
EXHIBIT C: Staff Report

FOR SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY:                         FOR THE APPLICANT:



George Pechmann,                                  Robert Alex Wilson
Planning Commission Chair




                                              3
                               PLANNING COMMISSION STAFF REPORT
MEETING DATE:             June 1, 2023
PROJECT NUMBER:           2320046
REQUEST:                  Petition for the approval of a Conditional Use Permit for a Child Care
                          Center in the Commercial Corridor land use district
ADDRESS:                  3200 South 700 East
PARCEL NUMBER:            16-29-304-003-0000, 16-29-304-006-0000, 16-29-304-007-0000
PROPERTY OWNER:           American Conservation Experience
APPLICANT:                Aardvark Solutions, INC
ITEM TYPE:                Administrative—Conditional Use Permit


STAFF RECOMMENDATION:
Staff recommends approval of the Conditional Use Permit to allow the establishment of a Child
Care Center in the existing two-story commercial building at 3200 South 700 East.

SYNOPSIS:
On May 1, 2023, Aardvark Solutions, INC., represented by Mr. Jensen Dobbs, applied for a Conditional
Use Permit to establish a Child Care Center at 3200 South 700 East (the subject property). The purpose
of the application is to allow for St John’s Community Child Development Center (CCDC) to expand
their existing nonprofit childcare program. A conditional use permit is required for St John’s CCDC to
conduct Child Care Center operations at the subject property, which is in the Commercial Corridor
land use district. See Attachment 3, the applicant letter, for greater detail concerning the aspects of
the proposed use.

The subject property is developed with an existing commercial office building which was historically
used for professional offices and services. The building has two occupiable floors and one
subterranean story devoted to parking. If granted the requested Conditional Use Permit, the
applicants intend to pursue entitlement for interior renovations of the building as well as some exterior
site improvements.

The intended interior renovations include reformatting the existing floorplan to accommodate six
separate classrooms, adequate provision of a fire suppression system, and the addition of ADA
accessibility enhancements to include an elevator, which can be accessed from all three floors.

Intended exterior site improvements are minimal but include provision of a fenced playground area
on the west side of the subject property, provision of an ADA accessible ramp on the east side of the
property, and a roof replacement. All proposed building plans will be reviewed for International
Building, ADA, and Fire Code compliance during the building permit review process.




  EXISTING                                     PREVIOUS            PROPOSED           SURROUNDING LAND
                       PROPOSAL
  ZONING                                     PROPERTY USE         PROPERTY USE              USES

                                                                                     Commercial Retail,
Commercial                                       Office,
                Conditional Use Permit                          Child Care Center Single-Family residential,
Corridor (CC)                                  Professional
                                                                                        City Facilities

                                                      1
                                 PLANNING COMMISSION STAFF REPORT

   GENERAL INFORMATION:

          Location:                        3200 S 700 E
          Property Size:                   0.3 Acres
          Surrounding Land Uses:           North: City Facility
                                           South: Commercial
                                           East: Millcreek City
                                           West: R-1 Residential


Figure 1: Existing Parcel Boundary Lines




                                                     2
Figure 2: Proposed Site Plan




Figure 3: Existing Conditions




                                3
PLANNING COMMISSION AUTHORITY:

17.11.030. Land Use Authority Designations.
Pursuant to state law, the following administrative land use authority designations are made:

   A. Planning Commission. The Planning Commission is the land use authority on issues of: Subdivision
      and Subdivision Plat approval; vacating, the altering or amending a Subdivision Plat; Conditional
      Use permit Applications; design review for Building Heights as established in this Title; design review
      for projects on Parcels where any portion of the Parcel abuts any residential district; and the
      issuance of a Building or demolition permit in a Historic and Landmark district.


CONDITIONAL USE REVIEW STANDARD:

Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-507(2) sets forth the following standard of review for conditional uses by
stating:

    (a)      (i)    A land use authority shall approve a conditional use if reasonable conditions are
                    proposed, or can be imposed, to mitigate the reasonably anticipated detrimental
                    effects of the proposed use in accordance with applicable standards.
             (ii)   The requirement described in Subsection (2)(a)(i) to reasonably mitigate
                    anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed conditional use does not require
                    elimination of the detrimental effects.
    (b)     If a land use authority proposes reasonable conditions on a proposed conditional use, the
            land use authority shall ensure that the conditions are stated on the record and reasonably
            relate to mitigating the anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use.
    (c)     If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use cannot
            be substantially mitigated by the proposal or the imposition of reasonable conditions to
            achieve compliance with applicable standards, the land use authority may deny the
            conditional use.


GENERAL PLAN CONSIDERATIONS:

Land Use & Neighborhoods #1: Continue to welcome new residents and businesses into South Salt Lake.

        Analysis: The accommodation of diversity is mentioned in the strategy to accomplish this goal. Staff
finds the proposed conditional use will further diversify the existing mix of goods and services that are
already provided in the adjacent Commercial Corridor district, strengthening the neighborhood economy
with a vital community service. Additionally, a proposed action for this strategy reads “identify
appropriate locations and strategies for neighborhood nodes for amenities and services within walking
distance of residents.” The existing Commercial Corridor is in proximity to serve as a walkable node to
abutting residential neighborhoods in both South Salt Lake and Millcreek. The proposed is a service that
would contribute to the development of such an arms-reach neighborhood node.

Economic Development #1: Maximize South Salt Lake’s social and economic equity through value-based
decision making.

       Analysis: A strategy identified for accomplishing Economic Development Goal #1 is to “encourage
development and preservation of neighborhood-based shops & services in strategic locations.” Staff finds
that the proposed conditional use is a vital neighborhood-based service, which serves as an ideal
                                                      4
transition to big box retail. The location is equally strategically viable, bordered between single-family
residential zoning to the immediate West and a variety of higher density commercial uses to the South.
The proposed constitutes a valuable community service at a prime strategic location.

ORDINANCE ANALYSIS:


            Ordinance                             Finding                            Condition of Approval
                                         Title 17 – Land Use
 17.05.020 – General Conditional Use Standards

 In reviewing an Application for a Conditional Use Permit, the land use authority shall consider
 whether the application:

    A. Identifies the maximum intensity of the proposed Development and Use;
    B. Complies with all provisions of the Code; and
    C. Compared to Permitted Uses and Development within the district, substantially mitigates the
    adverse impacts that are reasonably anticipated from the magnitude and intensity of the
    Development and Use, as proposed considering the following:

  A. Size and location of site.      3200 S 700 E
                                     0.29 acres in total.
  B. Traffic generation, timing,     Applicant projects approximately            One employee shall remain
     and nature of traffic           one (1) car per every five (5)              in the drop off and pickup
     impacts and the existing        minutes of operation. Normal                area to maintain safety and
     condition and capacity of       operating hours will be from 7 am to        order on site.
     streets.                        6 pm daily.
  C. Utility demand and              The existing water main may require         The applicant shall provide
     available capacity,             upsizing, which will be determined          will-serve letters from the
     including storm water           during the platting process.                applicable utility service
     retention                       Otherwise, all utilities are likely         providers. If necessary,
                                     sufficient.                                 capacity(s) will be increased
                                                                                 prior to the issuance of any
                                                                                 building permits.
  D. Emergency vehicle access        All points of the existing building are
     and anticipated average         within emergency vehicle access
     and peak day demand             from Spring View Drive, 700 E, and
                                     the adjacent parcel to the south.
                                     Peak demand will be from 10 am
                                     thru 3 pm.
  E. Location and amount of          Parking for the development is              The business shall maintain
     off-street parking              located on the basement level and           the required number of
                                     is accessed from Spring View Drive.         employees to comply with all
                                     11 stalls currently exist. 15 stalls will   student/supervisory ratios
                                     be provided if the proposed                 mandated by the State.
                                     renovations are realized.
  F. Internal vehicular and          Vehicular access to the site and            The applicant shall retain
     pedestrian circulation          circulation through the parking level       fifteen off-street parking stalls.
     system                          are adequate. The designated
                                     student pickup/drop-off location is
                                     also on the parking level and will be
                                     adequately striped and signed.
                                                       5
G. Fencing, Screening, and        Landscaping and fencing currently        Applicant shall supply a
   Landscaping                    exist on the site. The proposed          landscape plan compliant
                                  fencing placement reconfiguration        with Section 17.06 of the SSL
                                  is compliant with the Land Use and       Municipal Code as part of
                                  Development Ordinance (Title 17).        the building permit approval
                                                                           process.
H. Building mass, bulk, design,   Minimal changes are proposed for
   and orientation and            the existing building and site layout,
   location of buildings          none of which constitutes a change
                                  to building mass, bulk design, or
                                  orientation.
I.   Usable open space            0.16 acres, a portion of which will be
                                  dedicated fenced playground
                                  area.
J. Signs and lighting             Signage will be wall mounted on the      The applicant shall apply for
                                  east façade engaging 700 E at an         a sign permit prior to any
                                  approvable location. Existing lighting   signs being installed.
                                  is sufficient for site security and
                                  operation.
K. Physical design and            The existing compatible appeal of
   compatibility with             the building will remain unaltered.
   surrounding structures         The proposed playground on the
                                  west side of the building will not be
                                  visible from 700 E and will be
                                  obscured from Spring View Drive.
L. Noise, vibration, odors, or    The noise of children will be present    The applicant shall manage
   other factors that might       during business hours. Normal            noise to prevent nuisances to
   adversely affect people        operating hours will be from 7 am to     surrounding properties.
   and property off-site          6 pm daily.
M. Control of delivery or         All delivery, service vehicle parking,
   service vehicles               loading, and unloading will take
                                  place in the basement-level parking
                                  area in which there should always
                                  be space to accommodate such
                                  activities given parking demand
                                  and vehicle circulation projections.
N. Generation and screening       Three trash receptacles of standard
   of waste                       size will be stored in the basement
                                  and contractually serviced by Ace
                                  Disposal Co.
O. Recycling program and          One standard-size recycling bin and
   pickup areas                   one standard-size green waste bin
                                  will be stored in the basement and
                                  contractually serviced by Ace
                                  Disposal Co. Recycled material will
                                  likely be paper and plastic.
P. The potential adverse          No adverse impacts are anticipated
   impacts arising from           to arise from the conduct of patrons
   conduct of patrons, guests,    and employees.
   employees, occupants, or
   their affiliates
Q. Within and adjoining the       No negative impacts are

                                                  6
    site, the impacts of the Use    anticipated for adjoining public
    on public property and          property or environmentally sensitive
    environmentally sensitive       lands.
    lands
 R. Hours of operation, delivery,   Hours of operation and activity will
    and activity                    be from 7 am to 6 pm daily, Monday
                                    thru Friday.
 S. Special hazards arising from    No special hazards are expected.
     the use or from its
     reasonably anticipated
     secondary effects
 T. Demand for public               No additional increase on public
     infrastructure or services.    services is expected.
17.05.030 – Standards Applicable to all Conditional Uses
 A. Outdoor display of goods or Outdoor display or sales will not be
     merchandise is prohibited.     an aspect of the proposed
                                    conditional use.
 B. Outdoor storage of any          Outdoor storage will not be an
     goods or merchandise is        aspect of the proposed conditional
     prohibited.                    use.
17.05.050 – Conditional Use Permit Standards
 A. Use must be compatible in       The use as proposed is compatible       Proof of state approval shall
     intensity of Use, Scale, and   with the permitted                      be provided within 60 days of
     design with Permitted Uses                                             the release of a South Salt
     in the district                                                        Lake business license.
 B. Must not compromise             The proposed will not compromise
     health, safety, or welfare of community health, safety, or
     persons employed within or welfare.
     use the proposed
     development, those
     residing or working in the
     vicinity of the proposed use,
     or property or
     improvements in the vicinity
     of the proposed Use or
     Development
 C. Not impose                      The proposed will not impose
     disproportionate burdens       disproportionate burdens on the
     on the citizens of the city.   citizens of the city.
17.05.100 – Building Permits
 A. Issuance of a Conditional       The applicant will be applying for a    The applicant shall obtain a
     Use Permit does not excuse building permit as part of the project      building permit prior to any
     an Applicant from applying entitlement process.                        work being done. All future
     for and obtaining a Building                                           improvements of the building
     Permit.                                                                and property will comply with
                                                                            the design standards of
                                                                            §17.07.
17.06.040 – General Site Development Standards
 A. Must be on a legal lot        The three lots that comprise the
                                  subject property are legal lots of the
                                  existing Spring View Park Subdivision.
 B. All required curb and gutter Required curb and gutter are
                                                    7
     must be installed              present at the site.
  C. All underground utilities      Required utilities and access are
     located or access way          present at the site and will be
     surface are installed and      upgrades if found to be necessary in
     accepted                       the permitting review.
  D. Fire hydrants are fully        The applicant will secure Fire              The proposed building and
     operational                    Marshal approval as part of the             development plans shall
                                    building permit approval process            comply with the standards of
                                                                                the South Salt Lake
                                                                                Community Development
                                                                                Department, South Salt Lake
                                                                                Fire Marshal, South Salt Lake
                                                                                Building Official, and South
                                                                                Salt Lake Engineering
                                                                                Department as part of
                                                                                building permit approval.
  E. Streets and access ways        Necessary streets and public access
                                    ways are present in the vicinity of
                                    the site.
  F. Continuous access to the       The site is sufficiently accessible as it
      area                          exists.
 17.06.300 - Landscaping
  A. Landscape plan is required     A landscaping plan that complies
      for any application for a     with the requirements of Title 17 shall
      Building Permit               be obtained prior to the issuance of
                                    a building permit.
  B. Landscaped areas as            A landscaping plan that complies
     required by 17.06.300 shall    with the requirements of Title 17 shall
     be installed when a            be obtained prior to the issuance of
     Conditional Use Permit is      a building permit.
     issued or a Change of Use
     occurs. Shall be added as a
     condition of approval.
  C. Landscaping required in all    A landscaping plan that complies
     Yard Areas, perimeter of       with the requirements of Title 17 shall
     parking areas, in front of     be obtained prior to the issuance of
     buildings, and in the front    a building permit.
     setback.


STAFF RECOMMENDATION:

Staff recommends approval of the conditional use permit to allow the establishment of a Child Care
Center in the existing two-story commercial building at 3200 S 700 E with the proposed conditions of
approval. Staff’s recommendation is based on the following findings of fact and conclusions of law:

 Findings of Fact:

   1. On May 5, 2023, the applicant submitted a complete Conditional Use Permit Application concerning
      the subject property at 3200 S 700 E, South Salt Lake.

   2. The purpose of the application is to lawfully establish St John’s Community Child Development
      Center at the subject development.
                                                       8
  3. The sought use, Child Development Center, would be classified as a Child Care Center in the Land
     Use Matrix of §17.03 of the Land Use and Development Ordinance.

  4. The subject property is in the Commercial Corridor land use district.

  5. Child Care Centers are classified as a conditional use in the Commercial Corridor land use district
     per §17.03 of the Land Use and Development Ordinance.

  6. The Planning Commission is the land use authority over all conditional use permits.

  7. SSLC Code Section 17.01 defines a Child Care Center as “a Building, including outside play areas,
     used for the provision of Child Care for more than four (4) children for less than 24 hours a day, that
     is not a primary residence.”

  8. The subject property is approximately 0.3 Acres in size.

  9. The previous use of the subject property was Professional Office.

  10. SSLC Code Section 17.06.040 requires, prior to issuance of a Building Permit, that all new
      Development activity be on a legal Lot.

  11. The subject property is a legally subdivided lot.

  12. The subject property has vehicular and pedestrian access along 700 E and E Spring View Dr.

  13. The subject property has a total of 217 feet of frontage along 700 E and E Spring View Dr.

Conclusions of Law:

  1.   The use, as specifically conditioned below, is consistent with the South Salt Lake City General Plan.

  2.   The use, as specifically conditioned below, is compatible in use, scale, and design with permitted
       uses in the Commercial Corridor land use district.

  3.   The use, as specifically conditioned below, does not compromise the health, safety, or welfare of
       persons employed within or using the proposed development nor those residing or working in
       the vicinity of the proposed use; nor does the proposed compromise Development, Property, or
       improvements in the vicinity of the proposed use or development.

  4.   The use, as specifically conditioned below, does not impose disproportionate burdens on the citizens
       of the city.

Conditions of Approval:

  1. One employee shall remain in the drop-off and pickup area during regular business hours to
     maintain safety and order on site.

  2. The applicant shall provide will-serve letters from the applicable utility service providers and, if
     necessary, increase capacity(s) to an acceptable service level.

  3. The business shall maintain the required number of employees to comply with all
     student/supervisory ratios mandated by the State.
                                                      9
    4. The applicant shall retain fifteen off-street parking stalls.

    5. A landscape plan, compliant with Chapter 17.06 of the SSL Municipal Code, shall be provided as
       part of the building permit approval process.

    6. The applicant shall obtain a building permit prior to any renovation or site work being done.

    7. All building renovations and site improvements shall comply with the design and development
       standards set forth in the Title 17 of the SSL Municipal Code, as well as all building and fire
       department regulations.

    8. The applicant shall apply for a sign permit prior to any signs being installed.

    9. Proof of state approval shall be provided within 60 days of the release of a South Salt Lake
       business license.

    10. The applicant shall manage noise to prevent nuisances to surrounding properties.

PLANNING COMMISSION OPTIONS:

Option 1: Approval
Move to approve the application for a Conditional Use Permit for a Child Care Center at the subject property located
at 3200 South 700 East, with the conditions enumerated in the staff report and stated on the record.

Option 2: Denial
Move to deny the application for a Conditional Use Permit for a Child Care Center at the subject property located at
3200 South 700 East, with the conditions enumerated in the staff report and stated on the record.

Option 3: Continuance
Move to table the decision on the application for a Conditional Use Permit for a Child Care Center at the subject
property located at 3200 South 700 East, to a date certain to allow the Applicant and Staff time to respond to specific
inquires or concerns raised by the Planning Commission, or to allow the Planning Commission more time to consider
the proposal.

Attachments:

    1.   Site Plan
    2.   Conditional Use Permit
    3.   Applicant Letter – St John’s CCDC and Aardvark Solutions, INC




                                                           10
                                                                                                 S 700 E
N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Existing Fence

                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Pedestrian Flow
                                                                                   Green space
                                                                                                                                                                                    Green space
                                                                                                     Existing Signage                                                                                              Vehicle Flow

                                                                                                                                                                                                                    New Fence




                                               E Spring View Dr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Removed Fence



                                                                                                                                                                                                               Notes:
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Parcel Size .27 acre
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Building Footprint to remain unchanged
                                                                                                                                                                                                               curb cuts and ingress/egress to remain unchanged
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Existing interior fluorescent lighting in parking area to remain unchanged.
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Parking Structure Stall Dimension Table 17.06.160-B
                                                                                                                            20'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Existing Trees to remain
                                                                                                                                                                                                               landscape to be changed is ~18% of turf to be converted to wood chips.
                                                                                                                                                                                                               ~.67% area landscaped
                                                                                                                                                                                                               ~.49% area turf/ green
                                                                                                                         9'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Existing irrigation system to be used

                                                                                                                                                                                                               Existing signage on east facing Façade of building. proposed signage to remain
                                                                                                                                                                                                               at same location.


                                                                                                                                                                  Parking Drain
                                  18'-2 1/2"                      Ingress/Egress

                                                                                                                    Underground Parking loading/unloading zone

                                                                                                                                                                             Trash Bins




                                                                    Wood chips




                                                                                                                                     Loading zone
                                                                                                                                                                  elevator
                                                                                                                                                    15'-10 7/8"




                                                                                                                                                    8'-8"

                                                                                                                        Green space/Outdoor recreation                                            wood chips




     0         4'   8'   16'




    1/8": 1'




                                                                                                                                                            Saint John's SSL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                06
                               Site Plan
                                                                                                                                                                3200 S. 700 E.
                                                                                                                                                            Salt lake City, Ut 84106




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                A
 WHEN RECORDED PLEASE RETURN TO:

 SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY
 220 E. MORRIS AVE SUITE 200
 SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84115


                                   CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT

 Location: 3200 S 700 E
 Use: Child Care Center
 Zone: Commercial Corridor
 APN: 16-29-304-003-0000, 16-29-304-006-0000, 16-29-304-003-0000
 Fee Title Owner: American Conservation Experience
 File Number: 2320046
 Date: June 1, 2023


Permit Issued to:     Aardvark Solutions, INC

Findings of Fact:

   1. On May 5, 2023, the applicant submitted a complete Conditional Use Permit Application
      concerning the subject property at 3200 S 700 E, South Salt Lake.

   2. The purpose of the application is to lawfully establish St John’s Community Child
      Development Center at the subject development.

   3. The sought use, Child Development Center, would be classified as a Child Care Center in
      the Land Use Matrix of §17.03 of the Land Use and Development Ordinance.

   4. The subject property is in the Commercial Corridor land use district.

   5. Child Care Centers are classified as a conditional use in the Commercial Corridor land use
      district per §17.03 of the Land Use and Development Ordinance.

   6. The Planning Commission is the land use authority over all conditional use permits.

   7. SSLC Code Section 17.01 defines a Child Care Center as “a Building, including outside play
      areas, used for the provision of Child Care for more than four (4) children for less than 24
      hours a day, that is not a primary residence.”

   8. The subject property is 0.3 Acres in size.

   9. The previous use of the subject property was Professional Office.

                                                   1
   10. SSLC Code Section 17.06.040 requires, prior to issuance of a Building Permit, that all new
       Development activity be on a legal Lot.

   11. The subject property is a legally subdivided lot.

   12. The subject property has vehicular and pedestrian access along 700 E and E Spring View
       Dr.

   13. The subject property has a total of 217 feet of frontage along 700 E and E Spring View Dr.


Conclusions of Law:

   1. The use, as specifically conditioned below, is consistent with the South Salt Lake City General
      Plan.

   2. The use, as specifically conditioned below, is compatible in use, scale, and design with
      allowed uses in the Commercial Corridor land use district.

   3. The use, as specifically conditioned below, does not compromise the health, safety, or
      welfare of: Persons employed within or using the proposed development; Those residing or
      working in the vicinity of the proposed use or development; or Property or improvements in
      the vicinity of the proposed use or development.

   4. The use, as specifically conditioned below, does not impose disproportionate burdens on
      the citizens of the city.


Conditions of Approval:

   1. One employee shall remain in the drop-off and pickup area during regular business hours
      to maintain safety and order on site.

   2. The applicant shall provide will-serve letters from the applicable utility service providers
      and, if necessary, increase capacity(s) to an acceptable service level.

   3. The business shall maintain the required number of employees to comply with all
      student/supervisory ratios mandated by the State.

   4. The applicant shall retain fifteen off-street parking stalls.

   5. A landscape plan, compliant with Chapter 17.06 of the SSL Municipal Code, shall be
      provided as part of the building permit approval process.

   6. The applicant shall obtain a building permit prior to any renovation or site work being
      done.
                                                2
  7. All building renovations and site improvements shall comply with the design and
     development standards set forth in the Title 17 of the SSL Municipal Code, as well as all
     building and fire department regulations.

  8. The applicant shall apply for a sign permit prior to any signs being installed.

  9. Proof of state approval shall be provided within 60 days of the release of a South Salt
     Lake business license.

  10. The applicant shall manage noise to prevent nuisances to surrounding properties.


Exhibits (available on file with South Salt Lake City Community Development Department):

EXHIBIT A: CUP Application
EXHIBIT B: Property Affidavit
EXHIBIT C: Site Plan Packet
EXHIBIT D: Staff Report

FOR SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY:                            FOR THE APPLICANT:



George Pechmann,                                     Aardvark Solutions, INC
Planning Commission Chair




                                                3
Dear Community Development –

Re: St John’s Community Child Development Center SSL

This letter is to inform of the proposed use for the building located at 3200 S 700 E, South Salt Lake City,
UT, 84115. Currently, the property is owned by the American Conservation Experience. It is under
contract with St John’s CCDC and this application is part of due diligence.

A brief description of the property is a 2 story commercial building (commercial corridor) with
underground parking on a 0.27 acre lot comprised of 3 parcels (Parcel #’s 1629304003,
16293040060000, 16293040070000). 2 parcels run through the center of the building (see Sheet A01).

The building has a footprint of 5,440 ft² with total square footage of 15,282 ft². The parking garage
occupies 5,440 ft² and the 2 floors above total 9,842 ft².

Currently, the building is being used as office space.

Proposed use: St. John’s Community Child Development Center (CCDC) is excited about the opportunity
to occupy the property located at 3200 S 700 E, South Salt Lake, Utah, 84115.

This is an ideal location and building for our waitlisted childcare program. With the ongoing local and
national childcare shortage, we plan on making it a community-based childcare that serves all children
ages infant through 8th grade. The high demand for quality childcare and after-school programs is
evident with our ever-growing waitlists of over 150 students. We are eager about the possibility of being
able to expand our program and offer more opportunities to our residents.

About us: St. John’s Community Child Development Center (CCDC) is a non-profit, community-based
preschool and school-age childcare that was founded in 1998. We pride ourselves on serving all children
of different economic backgrounds.

Strength/experience of buyer: Over the past 11 years St. John’s CCDC has gone from 1 to 4 thriving
locations and 7 successful programs (4 preschool, 3 school-age) in the Salt Lake Valley. We have never
closed a location. Additionally, we have a strong relationship with our lender who believes in what we
do, and who has helped us with this growth.

Currently St. John’s CCDC is serving over 400 families with high quality childcare. We are an organization
comprised of two main programs:

    1. Our preschool program, St. John’s Community Child Development Center, is an infant through
       Pre-K program that has a curriculum based on the Reggio Emilia approach. This approach was
       developed after World War II in Italy and recognizes children’s inherent curiosity and desire to
       discover.
    2. Our school-age program, Camp Wild Life, is focused on conservation, outdoor exploration,
       making friends, having fun, and leaving electronics behind.

St. John’s CCDC is so much more than a childcare. We are an organization that takes pride in giving back
to our local community we do this by:
    •   Our “Operation Bee Kind” program. A program where our teachers, staff, and students do their
        part by giving back, filling local food pantries, picking up litter, dropping off flowers at doorsteps,
        and simply making people smile.
    •   Offering community classes such as first-aid and CPR, college financial planning 101, Fathering
        with Love and Logic, and so much more.
    •   Having fun community events such as our Summer Splash. An end of summer festival where we
        invite the local neighborhood to come enjoy water bounce houses, eat good food, and listen to
        fun music all while getting to know each other.
    •   Planning community fundraisers.

Buyer Intentions: We were thrilled to find this property and feel as though the current building is a
perfect fit for our program as proposed. We love the aesthetics of the property and plan to maintain the
integrity of the building. There will be minimal changes to meet our use and these changes will include:

    •   Interior renovations:
            o Reformatting the floorplan to accommodate 6 classrooms
            o ADA upgrades: upstairs restroom additions, downstairs restroom additions, elevator
            o Lighting
            o Fire suppression (sprinklers) through the main and 2nd floor (adequately sized existing
                 system in parking garage that can be tied into)
            o Sewer system has been evaluated by a professional and should be adequately sized for
                 the proposed use
            o Water main has been evaluated by a professional and will likely need to be upgraded in
                 size for the proposed use. Entrance of the main into the building is on the NE corner of
                 the building and would be a short run to the main water line in the street.
    •   Exterior renovations (front façade to go largely unchanged):
            o ADA upgrade: Ramp
            o Outdoor play area
            o Minimal signage mounted directly to building at location of existing sign
            o Moving of some interior fencing to enclose play area
            o Roof replacement
            o No additions or accessory buildings will be a part of this project
    •   Occupancy and Parking:
            o Parking lot will go largely unchanged. This building was originally built with 18
                 underground parking stalls. There are currently 14 stalls available for use as there was a
                 partition wall built in the garage for storage space. This wall will be demolished and
                 parking stalls available at that point will be 17 with one stall being occupied by an
                 elevator (Sheet A06).
            o South Salt Lake code allows 5 students/parking stall so the requested student count will
                 be 85.
            o An observation of drop off and pick up was conducted at the St John’s Sugarhouse
                 location over the course of 4 weeks. This location has an average of 122 daily average
                 child attendance with a total of 14 parking stalls. Pick up and drop off are designated
                 from 7-10am and 3-6pm. During this time it was observed that an average of 6 spaces
                 were utilized at a time.
           o   A loading zone is not necessary as St John’s policy states that all children need to be
               walked in and check in and out.



Thank you for your consideration and we look forward to working with you to complete this project!



Chaney Zinn – Executive Director, St John’s CCDC



Jensen Dobbs – Manager, Aardvark Solutions INC
