                                                           AGENDA
                                             PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
                                                    Thursday, July 13, 2023
                                               South Salt Lake Council Chambers
                                                    220 East Morris Avenue

                   PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING AT 7:00 P.M.

                   Pledge of Allegiance:   Christy Dahlberg
                   Approve Agenda:         George Pechmann


                   STAFF BUSINESS – INFORMATION ITEMS
 JONATHAN
WEIDENHAMER        None at this time
COMMUNITY &        NEW BUSINESS
 ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT
                   1. PUBLIC MEETING
  DIRECTOR
                      An application for an amendment to Conditional Use Permit C-21-001 to amend a
                      condition requiring the closure of one of two curb cuts on 2100 South.
                      ACTION ITEM
                      Applicant:   Dominion Energy, Brady Nowers, Representative
                      Address:     919 West 2100 South

                   2. PUBLIC HEARING
                      A petition for preliminary subdivision plat approval to plat a one-lot subdivision plat for
                      a proposed public utility facility.
                      ACTION ITEM
                      Applicant:    Dominion Energy, Brady Nowers, Representative
                      Address:      919 West 2100 South

                   3. PUBLIC HEARING
                      A petition for final subdivision plat approval to plat a one-lot subdivision plat for a
                      proposed commercial development.
                      ACTION ITEM
                      Applicant:   Ralph Nagasawa
                      Address:     3751 South 300 West

                   4. PUBLIC HEARING
                      A petition to the Planning Commission for a recommendation to the South Salt Lake
                      City Council, for an ordinance amending sections 17.03 and 17.07 of Title 17 of the
                      South Salt Lake City Municipal Code to correct technical errors and to amend certain
                      townhome development and design standards.
                      ACTION ITEM
CHERIE WOOD           Applicant:    South Salt Lake
    MAYOR

220 E MORRIS AVE   CONTINUING BUSINESS
     SUITE 200
SOUTH SALT LAKE     None at this time
       UTAH
       84115
 O 801.483.6000
  F 801.483.6001       IN COMPLIANCE WITH THE AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT, INDIVIDUALS NEEDING AUXILIARY
    SSLC.GOV        COMMUNICATIVE AIDS OR OTHER SERVICES FOR THIS MEETING SHOULD CONTACT ELIZA UNGRICHT, (801)
MAYOR@SSLC.GOV                              483-6013, GIVING AT LEAST 24 HOURS NOTICE.
South Salt Lake Planning Commission Regular Meeting                                          July 13, 2023 Page 2

                    PLANNING COMMISSION BUSINESS

                      Approval of the June 15, 2023 Planning Commission Minutes
                      ACTION ITEM



                 Join Zoom Webinar

                 Please click the link below to join the webinar:
                 https://zoom.us/j/96230908672?pwd=eHBXUkE0ajJzTTA1TVVhSU55MFNXUT09

                 Or One tap mobile :
                   +13462487799,,96230908672# US (Houston)
                   +16694449171,,96230908672# US
                 Or Telephone:
                   Dial(for higher quality, dial a number based on your current location):
                   +1 346 248 7799 US (Houston)
                   +1 669 444 9171 US
                   +1 669 900 6833 US (San Jose)
                   +1 719 359 4580 US
                   +1 253 205 0468 US
                   +1 253 215 8782 US (Tacoma)
                   +1 312 626 6799 US (Chicago)
                   +1 360 209 5623 US
                   +1 386 347 5053 US
                   +1 507 473 4847 US
                   +1 564 217 2000 US
                   +1 646 931 3860 US
                   +1 689 278 1000 US
                   +1 929 205 6099 US (New York)
                   +1 301 715 8592 US (Washington DC)
                   +1 305 224 1968 US
                   +1 309 205 3325 US
                 Webinar ID: 962 3090 8672
                   International numbers available: https://zoom.us/u/adeqrdcm2
                                    PLANNING COMMISSION STAFF REPORT

MEETING DATE:               July 13, 2023
PROJECT NUMBER:             2320043
REQUEST:                    Petition for approval of an amendment to C-21-001 to allow for two curb cuts for a
                            utility regulator station located at 919 West 2100 South.
ADDRESS:                    919 West 2100 South
PARCEL NUMBER:              15-23-201-003-0000
PROPERTY OWNER:             Minos Land Development, LLC, Brady Nowers, Representative
APPLICANT:                  Dominion Energy
TYPE OF ITEM:               Administrative – Conditional Use Permit Amendment


STAFF RECOMMENDATION:
Staff recommends approval for an amendment to an existing conditional use permit, C-21-001, to amend a condition
requiring the closure of one of two curb cuts on 2100 South.

SYNOPSIS:
On April 26, 2023, Dominion Energy (represented by Brady Nowers), submitted an application to amend an existing
Conditional Use Permit, C-21-001, for the construction and operation of a regulator station at 919 West 2100
South. The current application is to amend condition number one requiring the closure of one of two curb cuts on
2100 South.

The original Conditional Use Permit,
approved on September 1, 2022, was
issued with a condition requiring the
applicant to remove all but one curb cut
along 2100 South, compliant with South
Salt Lake Code Section 17.06.150(B)(3).
                                                                                                Figure 1. Conceptual Site Plan
The applicant has indicated that both curb
cuts are needed for Dominion Energy
personnel to safely enter the property
from the west curb cut, work around the
equipment and valves, and exit the
property from the east curb cut. The
applicant also spoke with the Utah
Department of Transportation (UDOT),
who has jurisdiction over 2100 South, and
indicated that UDOT does not have any objections to leaving the existing curb cuts.

  EXISTING                                         PREVIOUS         PROPOSED PROPERTY             SURROUNDING LAND
                         PROPOSAL
  ZONING                                         PROPERTY USE              USE                          USES
                  Installation of piping and
     Flex                                                                                         Flex, Shipping, Storage
                    construction of a new           Restaurant        Public Utility Facility
                                                                                                          Facilities
                      regulatory facility.




                                                          1
                                   PLANNING COMMISSION STAFF REPORT

    GENERAL INFORMATION:
          Location:                      919 West 2100 South
          Property Size:                 0.71 acres
          Surrounding Land Uses:         North: Salt Lake City
                                         South: I-15 Interchange
                                         East: UDOT Property
                                         West: Flex / Outdoor
                                         Storage


Figure 1: Existing Parcel Lines




                                                   2
Figure 2: Applicant’s Conceptual Site Plan




                                             3
Figure 3: Existing Conditions




Figure 4: Site Prior to Demolition




PLANNING COMMISSION AUTHORITY:

17.11.030. Land Use Authority Designations.
Pursuant to state law, the following administrative land use authority designations are made:

    A. Planning Commission. The Planning Commission is the land use authority on issues of: Subdivision and Subdivision

                                                              4
           Plat approval; vacating, altering or amending a Subdivision Plat; Conditional Use permit Applications; design review
           for Building Heights as established in this Title; design review for projects on Parcels where any portion of the Parcel
           abuts any residential district; and the issuance of a Building or demolition permit in a Historic and Landmark district.


 CONDITIONAL USE REVIEW STANDARD:

Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-507(2) sets forth the following standard of review for conditional uses by stating:

     (a)         (i)     A land use authority shall approve a conditional use if reasonable conditions are proposed, or can
                         be imposed, to mitigate the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use in
                         accordance with applicable standards.
                 (ii)     The requirement described in Subsection (2)(a)(i) to reasonably mitigate anticipated detrimental
                          effects of the proposed conditional use does not require elimination of the detrimental effects.
     (b)         If a land use authority proposes reasonable conditions on a proposed conditional use, the land use authority
                 shall ensure that the conditions are stated on the record and reasonably relate to mitigating the anticipated
                 detrimental effects of the proposed use.
     (c)          If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use cannot be substantially
                  mitigated by the proposal or the imposition of reasonable conditions to achieve compliance with applicable
                  standards, the land use authority may deny the conditional use.

South Salt Lake Municipal Code sections 17.05.020, 17.05.030, 17.05.050, and 17.05.100 set forth standards of review for
conditional uses, as outlined in the Ordinance Analysis section below.

GENERAL PLAN CONSIDERATIONS:

Land Use & Neighborhoods Goal 3, Page 28: Enhance urban and streetscape design in the city to support South Salt Lake’s
distinct image and enhance community pride.

           Analysis: The proposed project will improve a parcel that is currently vacant by adding landscaping and a sidewalk.

Community Facilities Goal 1, Strategy 2, Page 79: Encourage development that provides services in a logical, orderly manner
such that adequate streets, water, sewer, drainage facilities, schools, and other essential services can be provided, both
efficiently and economically.

           Analysis: The proposed regulator station will allow citizens in South Salt Lake and throughout the Salt Lake valley to
           have consistent access to natural gas.

Community Facilities Goal 1, Strategy 4, Page 79: Ensure an equitable access to services within neighborhoods and serving
areas of higher density housing.

      Analysis: The proposed project will, as part of Dominion Energy’s larger infrastructure improvement plan, help ensure
      that natural gas is available to residents throughout the South Salt Lake valley.
ORDINANCE ANALYSIS:


                  Ordinance                                       Finding                            Condition of Approval
                                                         Title 17 – Land Use
 17.05.020 – General Conditional Use Standards

 In reviewing an Application for a Conditional Use Permit, the land use authority shall consider whether the
 application:

                                                                   5
 A. Identifies the maximum intensity of the proposed Development and Use;
 B. Complies with all provisions of the Code; and
 C. Compared to Permitted Uses and Development within the district, substantially mitigates the adverse impacts
 that are reasonably anticipated from the magnitude and intensity of the Development and Use, as proposed,
 considering:

A. Size and location of site.           The address of the property is 919 W 2100
                                        S. The property is 0.71 acres in size.
B. Traffic generation, timing, and      The proposed use of a Public Utility Facility
   nature of traffic impacts and the    is a natural gas regulator and testing
   existing condition and capacity of   facility. The applicant will have employees
   streets                              and their vehicles on the premises
                                        approximately four times per year.
C. Utility demand and available         The proposed facility will use minimal
   capacity, including storm water      power, leverage existing storm water
   retention                            capacity on-site and no sewer
                                        infrastructure. The applicant will install all
                                        required gas infrastructure to support the
                                        Public Utility Facility.
D. Emergency vehicle access and         Emergency access to the site is along 2100
   anticipated average and peak day     South, with curb cuts being 31 feet wide.
   demand                               The minimum access point width is 26 feet.
                                        As this is an unmanned facility, average
                                        demand is 0 and peak day demand is 3.
E. Location and amount of off-          Given its status as a regional public utility
   street parking                       facility that operates unmanned, no parking
                                        spaces are required for approval. Based on
                                        applicant plans the site has sufficient space
                                        to accommodate vehicles visiting the site
                                        for maintenance purposes.
F. Internal vehicular and pedestrian    Property has access along 2100 South with         South Salt Lake’s City Engineer
   circulation system                   curb cuts being 31 feet wide, complying          has reviewed the application
                                        with minimum vehicular access of 26 feet.        and determined that, based on
                                        There are 2 drive approaches. According to       the following factors and has
                                        Section 17.06, a minimum of 200 feet is          found that the proposed
                                        required between drive approaches. The           development is eligible to
                                        property has 181 feet of frontage. Per SSL       keep both curb cuts, pending
                                        Municipal Code Section 17.06.050 B(3)(f)         Planning Commission
                                        the City Engineer may approve a                  approval. Safety: The site
                                        modification to the drive approach               requires both curb cuts for
                                        separation requirements based upon               Dominion Energy employees
                                        factors including safety, alternative access     to safely navigate vehicles and
                                        points, sight lines, impact on traffic flow,     equipment around the site.
                                        and site circulation. (Pending City Council
                                        approval of an ordinance amendment July          Alternative access points and
                                        12, 2023).                                       potential for reciprocal or
                                                                                         shared accesses: N/A

                                                                                         Sight lines: The amount of
                                                                                         traffic expected for this site is
                                                                                         not anticipated to create any

                                                            6
                                                                                             issues with sight lines.

                                                                                             Impact on traffic flow: Because
                                                                                             the site will only be accessed
                                                                                             approximately four times per
                                                                                             year, the impact on traffic flow
                                                                                             will be negligible.

                                                                                              Site circulation: Once the site
                                                                                              is built out and all
                                                                                              infrastructure is in place, both
                                                                                              curb cuts are required for the
                                                                                              safe navigation of vehicles and
                                                                                              equipment through the site.
G. Fencing, Screening, and               The applicant will be installing an 8 foot,     Applicant shall supply a landscape
   Landscaping                           non-climbable, wrought iron fence around        plan compliant with Section 17.06
                                         the entirety of the property. Landscaping is    of the SSL Municipal Code and the
                                         encompassed by 17.06 of the SSL Municipal       SSL Landscape Handbook as part of
                                         Code.                                           building permit approval.
H. Building mass, bulk, design, and      A single regulatory station structure is
   orientation and location of           proposed on the southwest corner of the
   buildings                             property (rear). The existing building on-
                                         site will be demolished as part of
                                         construction. The property is located in the
                                         Flex district, which supports Flex uses and
                                         structures such as the proposed Public
                                         Utility Facility.
I.   Usable open space                   The property will be a secured site and not     The applicant shall comply with
                                         open for public access.                         Crime Prevention Through
                                                                                         Environmental Design (CPTED)
                                                                                         principles as required by Section
                                                                                         17.07 of the South Salt Lake
                                                                                         Municipal Code.
J.   Signs and lighting                  No signage is proposed for the property as
                                         a Public Utility Facility is proposed, not a
                                         commercial business. The applicant is
                                         required to maintain a light over 0-foot
                                         candles on all points of the property. The
                                         lighting is compliant per the Engineering
                                         review.
K. Physical design and compatibility     The property is located in the Flex district,   The applicant must submit building
   with surrounding structures           which supports Flex uses and structures         plans that are compliant with all
                                         such as the proposed Public Utility Facility.   design and development standards
                                         Warehouse / Industrial structures are           within 180 days of the Conditional
                                         commonplace in this zone, which is similar      Use Permit being approved.
                                         to the proposed structure.
L.   Noise, vibration, odors, or other   All equipment will be contained to the
     factors that might adversely        planned building. As a result, any noise
     affect people and property off-     from operations will not be audible above
     site                                the traffic noise from 2100 South. Any
                                         noise will match the surrounding property
                                         flex use operations.
M. Control of delivery or service        Delivery vehicles will not visit site.
                                                             7
      vehicles                           Employee vehicles will visit site a maximum
                                         of 3 times per month generating minimal
                                         traffic.
 N. Generation and screening of          There will be no waste or trash from facility       All trash on-site must be removed
      waste                              operations.                                         within 10 business days.
 O. Recycling program and pickup         There will be no waste or trash from facility
      areas                              operations requiring recycling or refuse
                                         pickup. The proposed Public Utility Facility
                                         is not a business and will have no
                                         occupancy or business activity.
 P. The potential adverse impacts        There will be no patrons, guests,
      arising from conduct of patrons,   occupants, or affiliates on site. Employees
      guests, employees, occupants, or will visit the site approximately four times
      their affiliates                   per year to maintain Public Utility Facility
                                         and will not generate adverse impacts from
                                         their routine operations.
 Q. Within and adjoining the site, the Based on FEMA data, 919 West 2100 South
      impacts of the Use on public       is not located in an environmentally
      property and environmentally       sensitive area. The regulatory station that is
      sensitive lands                    proposed will have no impacts to public
                                         property.
 R. Hours of operation, delivery, and The Public Utility Facility is not a business
      activity                           and will not have operating hours.
                                         Regulatory station shall operate 24/7.
 S. Special hazards arising from the     Applicant will comply with all construction
      use or from its reasonably         and regulatory requirements for the
      anticipated secondary effects      proposed facility
 T. Demand for public infrastructure Dominion Energy will be installing all the
      or services.                       infrastructure required for the proposed
                                         facility as it is part of a larger infrastructure
                                         expansion for their network. There will be
                                         no impact to South Salt Lake infrastructure
                                         from the proposed facility.
17.05.030 – Standards Applicable to all Conditional Uses
 A. Outdoor display of goods or          All equipment and activity for the Public
      merchandise is prohibited.         Utility Facility will be contained to the
                                         interior of the structure.
 B. The outdoor storage of any           All equipment and activity for the Public           All metering and external
      goods or merchandise is            Utility Facility will be contained to the           infrastructure shall be screened
      prohibited.                        interior of the structure with screening of         from view of the public right of
                                         all mandatory exterior infrastructure.              way via landscaping or an
                                                                                             alternative screening method.
17.05.050 – Conditional Use Permit Standards
 A. Use must be compatible in           The proposed facility is located in the Flex
      intensity of Use, Scale, and      district, which contains and supports light
      design with Permitted Uses in     industrial type uses. The proposed use and
      the district                      structure will match the character of the
                                        district as a Public Utility Facility station.
 B. Must not compromise health,         The proposed facility is intended to
      safety, or welfare of:            improve capacity and the ability of
      - Persons employed within or      Dominion Energy to provide public utility
          use the proposed              services and will not compromise health,

                                                                8
          development                    safety, or welfare as conditioned below.
     -    Those residing or working in
          the vicinity of the proposed
          use of development
    - Property or improvements in
          the vicinity of the proposed
          Use or Development
 C. Not impose disproportionate          The proposed facility is intended to
    burdens on the citizens of the       improve capacity and the ability of
    city.                                Dominion Energy to provide public utility
                                         services to the public. No burden is being
                                         imposed as conditioned below.
17.05.100 – Building Permits
 A. Issuance of a Conditional Use        The applicant will be applying for a building   The applicant shall apply for and
      Permit does not excuse an          permit as part of the construction process.     receive a South Salt Lake building
      Applicant from applying for and                                                    permit prior to construction of a
      obtaining a Building Permit.                                                       Public Utility Facility. The design of
                                                                                         the building must comply with all
                                                                                         design standards in Title 17.
17.06.040 – General Site Development Standards
 A. Must be on a legal lot             919 West 2100 South is a legal parcel             A subdivision plat will be required
                                       though not a legally subdivided lot. The          to be approved and recorded with
                                       applicant is working within the existing lot      the Salt Lake County Recorder’s
                                       without requiring any lot adjustments or          Office prior to the building permit
                                       amendments.                                       being issued.
 B. All required curb and gutter must As needed and per UDOT discretion, curb,           As needed and per UDOT discretion,
      be installed                     gutter, and sidewalk will be installed.           curb, gutter, and sidewalk will be
                                                                                         installed.

 C. All underground utilities located    Dominion Energy shall install all required
    under the Street or access way       infrastructure to support and maintain the
    surface are installed and            proposed Public Utility Facility
    accepted by the City and
    appropriate agencies
 D. Fire hydrants are fully              The applicant will secure Fire Marshal          The applicant shall comply fully
    operational                          approval as part of the building permit         with the standards of the South
                                         approval process                                Salt Lake Community Development
                                                                                         Department, South Salt Lake Fire
                                                                                         Marshal, South Salt Lake Building
                                                                                         Official, and South Salt Lake
                                                                                         Engineering Department as part of
                                                                                         building permit approval.
 E. Streets and access ways              Dominion Energy shall install all required
                                         infrastructure under 17.06 as part of
                                         redevelopment.
 F. Continuous access to the area        A Knox box will be required as part of the      All fencing shall have access via a
                                         site fencing and a code compliant curb cut      Knox box.
                                         and drive access established and
                                         maintained.
17.06.300 - Landscaping
 A. Landscape plan is required for       A landscape plan has been submitted and         The applicant shall be required to
      any application for a Building     complies with Title 17.                         submit a complete landscape plan

                                                            9
      Permit                                                                                 in compliance with 17.06 as part of
                                                                                             Building Permit approval.
  B. Landscaped areas as required by        A landscape plan has been submitted and          The applicant shall install all
     17.06.300 shall be installed when      complies with Title 17.                          landscaping in compliance with
     a Conditional Use Permit is                                                             17.06.300 of the South Salt Lake
     issued or a Change of Use occurs.                                                       Municipal Code.
     Shall be added as a condition of
     approval.
  C. Landscaping required in all Yard       A landscape plan has been submitted and
     Areas, perimeter of parking            complies with Title 17.
     areas, in front of buildings, and in
     the front setback.


STAFF RECOMMENDATION:

Staff recommends approval for an amendment to an existing conditional use permit, C-21-001, to amend a condition
requiring the closure of one of two curb cuts along 2100 South at the Dominion Energy regulator station located at 919 West
2100 South, based on the following findings of fact and conclusions of law, with the proposed conditions of approval:

 Findings of Fact:

   1. On April 26, 2023, Dominion Energy submitted an application to amend an existing Conditional Use Permit, C-21-001, for
      the construction and operation of a regulator station at 919 West 2100 South.

   2. The purpose of the application and project is part of a larger infrastructure replacement program to better meet current
      and future natural gas supply demand.

   3. A regulator station would be classified as a Public Utility Facility.

   4. SSLC Code Section 17.01 defines a Public Utility Facility as “any Structure or Building used by a public utility agency to
      (a) store, distribute, or generate electricity, gas, or telecommunications, and any related equipment, or (b) to capture,
      pump, or to otherwise engage in all aspects of treating and distributing water or effluent. A Public Utility Facility does
      not include storage or treatment of solid or hazardous waste.”

   5. The previous use of 919 West 2100 South was a restaurant. The applicant has demolished the existing building,
      establishing the proposal as a redevelopment of an existing property.

   6. Redevelopment of a property requires all current municipal codes to apply to the proposal, including development
      standards, use standards, and design standards.

   7. 919 West 2100 South is located in the Flex land use district.

   8. SSLC Code Section 17.03, classifies a Public Utility Facility as a Conditional Use in the Flex land use district, requiring a
      Conditional Use Permit.

   9. The Planning Commission is the land use authority over all conditional use permits.

   10. Conditional Use Permit C-21-001, was approved on September 1, 2022, with the following conditions of approval:
               1.       The applicant shall provide curb, gutter, and sidewalk as needed along the frontage of 2100 South as
               part of building permit approval in compliance with 17.06. The applicant shall also remove all but one curb
               cut along 2100 South.


                                                                10
             2.       Applicant shall supply a landscape plan compliant with Section 17.06 of the SSL Municipal Code and
             the SSL Landscape Handbook as part of building permit approval within 180 days of the Conditional Use
             Permit being approved.

             3.       The applicant shall comply with Crime Prevention through Environmental Design (CPTED) principles
             as required by Section 17.07 of the South Salt Lake Municipal Code.

             4.     The applicant must submit a subdivision plat and have it recorded with the Salt Lake County
             Recorder’s Office prior to the building permit being released.

             5.      The applicant must submit a building permit that is compliant with all design and development
             standards within 180 days of the Conditional Use Permit being approved.

             6.       All trash on-site must be removed within 10 business days.

             7.      All metering and external infrastructure shall be screened from view of the public right of way via
             landscaping or an alternative screening method.

             8.      The applicant shall apply for and receive a South Salt Lake building permit prior to construction of a
             Public Utility Facility. The design of the building must comply with all design standards in Title 17.

             9.     The applicant shall comply fully with the standards of the South Salt Lake Community Development
             Department, South Salt Lake Fire Marshal, South Salt Lake Building Official, and South Salt Lake Engineering
             Department as part of building permit approval.

             10.      All fencing shall have access via a Knox box.

11. The applicant is petitioning to change condition number one to allow both curb cuts to remain in place.

12. 919 West 2100 South is 0.71 acres in size.
            a. All required curb and gutter must be installed unless the City allows such installation to be
            deferred until a later stage of the Development.
            b. All underground utilities located under the Street or access way surface are installed and accepted by the
    City and appropriate agencies.
            c. Fire hydrants are fully operational in the area of the Development where permits are requested, with
            adequate culinary water lines fire flow to meet the demands of all properties served by the line.
            d. Streets or access ways are rough graded and provided with all-weather surface acceptable to the City; and
            Continuous access to the area of the requested permit through the project is provided by an access,
            approved, by the City, and improved with all-weather surface.

13. The proposed use is the Public Utility Facility, which, as proposed is a natural gas regulator and testing facility.

14. The proposed Public Utility Facility is an unmanned, non-commercial facility.

15. 919 West 2100 South is a legal parcel; however, it is not a legally subdivided lot.

16. SSLC Code Section 17.06.040 requires, prior to issuance of a Building Permit, for all Development, the Development
    Site must be on a legal Lot.

17. 919 West 2100 South has vehicular and pedestrian access along 2100 South.

18. 919 West 2100 South has 181 feet of frontage along 2100 South.


                                                            11
   19. The property has two (2) curb cuts along 2100 South. The applicant has requested that the development be allowed
       to keep both existing curb cuts to facilitate the safe movement of vehicles and equipment through the site.

   20. The applicant has indicated that the site will be accessed approximately four times per year

   21. The South Salt Lake City Engineer has reviewed the proposed development, using the criteria found in SSL Code
       Section 17.06.050 B(3)(f): safety, alternative access points and potential for reciprocal or shared accesses, sight lines,
       impact on traffic flow, and site circulation. (This section of code is pending approval by the SSL City Council on July 12,
       2023.)
           a. Safety: The site requires both curb cuts for Dominion Energy employees to safely navigate vehicles and
               equipment around the site.
           b. Alternative access points and potential for reciprocal or shared accesses: N/A
           c. Sight lines: The amount of traffic expected for this site is not anticipated to create any issues with sight lines.
           d. Impact on traffic flow: Because the site will only be accessed approximately four times per year, the impact
               on traffic flow will be negligible.
           e. Site circulation: Once the site is built out and all infrastructure is in place, both curb cuts are required for the
               safe navigation of vehicles and equipment through the site.

   22. No delivery vehicles will visit the site. All vehicular traffic will come from Dominion Energy employees visiting the site.


Conclusions of Law:

   1.   The use, as specifically conditioned below, is consistent with the South Salt Lake City General Plan.

   2.   The use, as specifically conditioned below, is compatible in use, scale, and design with allowed uses in the Flex land
        use district.


   3.   The use, as specifically conditioned below, does not compromise the health, safety, or welfare of: Persons employed
        within or using the proposed development; Those residing or working in the vicinity of the proposed use or
        development; or Property or improvements in the vicinity of the proposed use or development.


   4.   The use, as specifically conditioned below does not impose disproportionate burdens on the citizens of the city.


   5.   The City Engineer is supportive of keeping the two curb cuts based on his findings that modifying the separation
        requirements does not reduce or diminish safe travel for pedestrians or vehicles; diminish site lines; or have a
        negative impact on traffic flow based on the anticipated trips to the site. Further, keeping two curb cuts enhances
        site circulation and safety for the vehicles anticipated to use the site and will result in safer ingress and egress.


Conditions of Approval:


   1. As needed, curb, gutter, and sidewalk will be installed along the frontage of 2100 South. Due to the nature of the
      Public Facility Use the two curb cuts are required, and because the City Engineer has reviewed and found this
      proposal eligible, the two existing curb cuts may be allowed to remain in place pending SSL Planning Commission
      approval.

   2. Applicant shall supply a landscape plan compliant with Section 17.06 of the SSL Municipal Code and the SSL
      Landscape Handbook as part of building permit approval within 180 days of the Conditional Use Permit being
                                                               12
      approved.

  3. The applicant shall comply with Crime Prevention through Environmental Design (CPTED) principles as required by
     Section 17.07 of the South Salt Lake Municipal Code.

  4. The applicant must submit a subdivision plat and have it recorded with the Salt Lake County Recorder’s Office prior
     to the building permit being released.

  5. The applicant must submit a building permit that is compliant with all design and development standards within 180
     days of the Conditional Use Permit being approved.

  6. All trash on-site must be removed within 10 business days.

  7. All metering and external infrastructure shall be screened from view of the public right of way via landscaping or an
     alternative screening method.

  8. The applicant shall apply for and receive a South Salt Lake building permit prior to construction of a Public Utility
     Facility. The design of the building must comply with all design standards in Title 17.

  9. The applicant shall comply fully with the standards of the South Salt Lake Community Development Department,
     South Salt Lake Fire Marshal, South Salt Lake Building Official, and South Salt Lake Engineering Department as part of
     building permit approval.

  10. All fencing shall have access via a Knox box.


PLANNING COMMISSION OPTIONS:
  Option 1: Approval
  Move to approve the application by Brady Nowers, on behalf of Minos Land Development LLC for an amendment to an
  existing conditional use permit, C-21-001, to amend a condition requiring the closure of one of two curb cuts on 2100 South,
  with the conditions enumerated in the staff report and on the record.

  Option 2: Denial
  Move to deny the application by Brady Nowers, on behalf of Minos Land Development LLC for an amendment to an existing
  conditional use permit, C-21-001, to amend a condition requiring the closure of one of two curb cuts on 2100 South, for the
  reasons stated on the record.

  Option 3: Continuance
  Move to table the decision on the application by Brady Nowers, on behalf of Minos Land Development LLC for an
  amendment to an existing conditional use permit, C-21-001, to amend a condition requiring the closure of one of two curb
  cuts on 2100 South to a date certain to allow the Applicant and Staff time to respond to specific inquiries or concerns raised
  by the Planning Commission, or to allow the Planning Commission more time to consider the proposal.

Attachments:
   1. Site Plan
   2. Conditional Use Permit – C-21-001
   3. Conditional Use Permit – 2320043




                                                             13
 WHEN RECORDED PLEASE RETURN TO:

 SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY
 220 E. MORRIS AVE SUITE 200
 SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84115


                                     CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT

 Location: 919 West 2100 South
 Use: Public Utility Facility
 Zone: Flex
 APN: 15-23-201-003-0000
 Fee Title Owner: Questar Gas Company
 File Number: C-21-001
 Date: September 1, 2022


Permit Issued to:      Dominion Energy
                       919 West 2100 South
                       South Salt Lake City, UT 84115

Findings of Fact:

   1. On January 19, 2021, Dominion Energy submitted an application for a Conditional Use
      Permit for the construction and operation of a regulator station at 919 West 2100 South.

   2. The purpose of the application and project is part of a larger infrastructure replacement
      program to better meet current and future natural gas supply demand.

   3. A regulator station would be classified as a Public Utility Facility.

   4. SSLC Code Section 17.01 defines a Public Utility Facility as “any Structure or Building used by
      a public utility agency to (a) store, distribute, or generate electricity, gas, or
      telecommunications, and any related equipment, or (b) to capture, pump, or to otherwise
      engage in all aspects of treating and distributing water or effluent. A Public Utility Facility
      does not include storage or treatment of solid or hazardous waste.”

   5. The previous use of 919 West 2100 South was a restaurant. The applicant has demolished
      the existing building, establishing the proposal as a redevelopment of an existing property.

   6. Redevelopment of a property requires all current municipal codes to apply to the proposal,
      including development standards, use standards, and design standards.

   7. 919 West 2100 South is located in the Flex land use district.
                                                   1
   8. SSLC Code Section 17.03, classifies a Public Utility Facility as a Conditional Use in the Flex
      land use district, requiring a Conditional Use Permit.

   9. The Planning Commission is the land use authority over all conditional use permits.

   10. 919 West 2100 South is 0.71 acres in size.
       a. All required curb and gutter must be installed unless the City allows such installation to be
                deferred until a later stage of the Development.
       b. All underground utilities located under the Street or access way surface are installed and
                accepted by the City and appropriate agencies.
       c. Fire hydrants are fully operational in the area of the Development where permits are
                requested, with adequate culinary water lines fire flow to meet the demands of all
                properties served by the line.
       d. Streets or access ways are rough graded and provided with all-weather surface acceptable
            to the City; and Continuous access to the area of the requested permit through the
            project is provided by an access, approved, by the City, and improved with all-weather
            surface.

   11. The proposed use is the Public Utility Facility, which, as proposed is a natural gas regulator
       and testing facility.

   12. The proposed Public Utility Facility is an unmanned, non-commercial facility.

   13. 919 West 2100 South is a legal parcel, however, it is not a legally subdivided lot.

   14. SSLC Code Section 17.06.040 requires, prior to issuance of a Building Permit, for all
       Development, the Development Site must be on a legal Lot.

   15. 919 West 2100 South has vehicular and pedestrian access along 2100 South.

   16. 919 West 2100 South has 181 feet of frontage along 2100 South.

   17. The property has two (2) curb cuts along 2100 South. According to Section 17.06, lots with
       frontage greater than 100 feet may have one additional drive approach every 200 feet.

   18. No delivery vehicles will visit the site. All vehicular traffic will come from Dominion Energy
       employees visiting the site.


Conclusions of Law:

   1. The use, as specifically conditioned below, is consistent with the South Salt Lake City General
      Plan.


                                                   2
   2. The use, as specifically conditioned below, is compatible in use, scale, and design with
      allowed uses in the Flex land use district.

   3. The use, as specifically conditioned below, does not compromise the health, safety, or
      welfare of: Persons employed within or using the proposed development; Those residing or
      working in the vicinity of the proposed use or development; or Property or improvements in
      the vicinity of the proposed use or development.

   4. The use, as specifically conditioned below does not impose disproportionate burdens on the
      citizens of the city.


Conditions of Approval:

   1. The applicant shall provide curb, gutter, and sidewalk as needed along the frontage of 2100
      South as part of building permit approval in compliance with 17.06. The applicant shall also
      remove all but one curb cut along 2100 South.

   2. Applicant shall supply a landscape plan compliant with Section 17.06 of the SSL Municipal
      Code and the SSL Landscape Handbook as part of building permit approval within 180 days
      of the Conditional Use Permit being approved.

   3. The applicant shall comply with Crime Prevention through Environmental Design (CPTED)
      principles as required by Section 17.07 of the South Salt Lake Municipal Code.

   4. The applicant must submit a subdivision plat and have it recorded with the Salt Lake County
      Recorder’s Office prior to the building permit being released.

   5. The applicant must submit a building permit that is compliant with all design and
      development standards within 180 days of the Conditional Use Permit being approved.

   6. All trash on-site must be removed within 10 business days.

   7. All metering and external infrastructure shall be screened from view of the public right of
      way via landscaping or an alternative screening method.

   8. The applicant shall apply for and receive a South Salt Lake building permit prior to
      construction of a Public Utility Facility. The design of the building must comply with all
      design standards in Title 17.

   9. The applicant shall comply fully with the standards of the South Salt Lake Community
      Development Department, South Salt Lake Fire Marshal, South Salt Lake Building Official,
      and South Salt Lake Engineering Department as part of building permit approval.

   10. All fencing shall have access via a Knox box.

                                                  3
Exhibits (available on file with South Salt Lake City Community Development Department):

EXHIBIT A: CUP Application
EXHIBIT B: Property Affidavit
EXHIBIT C: Site Plan
EXHIBIT D: Staff Report

FOR SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY:                         FOR THE APPLICANT:



Laura Vernon,                                     Dominion Energy
Planning Commission Chair




                                              4
 WHEN RECORDED PLEASE RETURN TO:

 SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY
 220 E. MORRIS AVE SUITE 200
 SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84115


                                     CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT

 Location: 919 West 2100 South
 Use: Public Utility Facility
 Zone: Flex
 APN: 15-23-201-003-0000
 Fee Title Owner: Questar Gas Company
 File Number: 2320043
 Date: July 13, 2023


Permit Issued to:      Dominion Energy
                       919 West 2100 South
                       South Salt Lake City, UT 84115

Findings of Fact:

   1. On April 26, 2023, Dominion Energy submitted an application to amend an existing
      Conditional Use Permit, C-21-001, for the construction and operation of a regulator station
      at 919 West 2100 South.

   2. The purpose of the application and project is part of a larger infrastructure replacement
      program to better meet current and future natural gas supply demand.

   3. A regulator station would be classified as a Public Utility Facility.

   4. SSLC Code Section 17.01 defines a Public Utility Facility as “any Structure or Building used by
      a public utility agency to (a) store, distribute, or generate electricity, gas, or
      telecommunications, and any related equipment, or (b) to capture, pump, or to otherwise
      engage in all aspects of treating and distributing water or effluent. A Public Utility Facility
      does not include storage or treatment of solid or hazardous waste.”

   5. The previous use of 919 West 2100 South was a restaurant. The applicant has demolished
      the existing building, establishing the proposal as a redevelopment of an existing property.

   6. Redevelopment of a property requires all current municipal codes to apply to the proposal,
      including development standards, use standards, and design standards.


                                                   1
7. 919 West 2100 South is located in the Flex land use district.

8. SSLC Code Section 17.03, classifies a Public Utility Facility as a Conditional Use in the Flex
   land use district, requiring a Conditional Use Permit.

9. The Planning Commission is the land use authority over all conditional use permits.

10. Conditional Use Permit C-21-001, was approved on September 1, 2022, with the following
    conditions of approval:
    1.       The applicant shall provide curb, gutter, and sidewalk as needed along the frontage
    of 2100 South as part of building permit approval in compliance with 17.06. The applicant
    shall also remove all but one curb cut along 2100 South.

   2.     Applicant shall supply a landscape plan compliant with Section 17.06 of the SSL
   Municipal Code and the SSL Landscape Handbook as part of building permit approval within
   180 days of the Conditional Use Permit being approved.

   3.    The applicant shall comply with Crime Prevention through Environmental Design
   (CPTED) principles as required by Section 17.07 of the South Salt Lake Municipal Code.

   4.     The applicant must submit a subdivision plat and have it recorded with the Salt Lake
   County Recorder’s Office prior to the building permit being released.

   5.     The applicant must submit a building permit that is compliant with all design and
   development standards within 180 days of the Conditional Use Permit being approved.

   6.      All trash on-site must be removed within 10 business days.

   7.      All metering and external infrastructure shall be screened from view of the public
   right of way via landscaping or an alternative screening method.

   8.     The applicant shall apply for and receive a South Salt Lake building permit prior to
   construction of a Public Utility Facility. The design of the building must comply with all
   design standards in Title 17.

   9.     The applicant shall comply fully with the standards of the South Salt Lake Community
   Development Department, South Salt Lake Fire Marshal, South Salt Lake Building Official,
   and South Salt Lake Engineering Department as part of building permit approval.

   10.     All fencing shall have access via a Knox box.

11. The applicant is petitioning to change condition number one to allow both curb cuts to
    remain in place.



                                                2
12. 919 West 2100 South is 0.71 acres in size.
    a. All required curb and gutter must be installed unless the City allows such installation to be
             deferred until a later stage of the Development.
    b. All underground utilities located under the Street or access way surface are installed and
             accepted by the City and appropriate agencies.
    c. Fire hydrants are fully operational in the area of the Development where permits are
             requested, with adequate culinary water lines fire flow to meet the demands of all
             properties served by the line.
    d. Streets or access ways are rough graded and provided with all-weather surface acceptable
         to the City; and Continuous access to the area of the requested permit through the
         project is provided by an access, approved, by the City, and improved with all-weather
         surface.

13. The proposed use is the Public Utility Facility, which, as proposed is a natural gas regulator
    and testing facility.

14. The proposed Public Utility Facility is an unmanned, non-commercial facility.

15. 919 West 2100 South is a legal parcel; however, it is not a legally subdivided lot.

16. SSLC Code Section 17.06.040 requires, prior to issuance of a Building Permit, for all
    Development, the Development Site must be on a legal Lot.

17. 919 West 2100 South has vehicular and pedestrian access along 2100 South.

18. 919 West 2100 South has 181 feet of frontage along 2100 South.

19. The property has two (2) curb cuts along 2100 South. According to Section 17.06, lots with
    frontage greater than 100 feet may have one additional drive approach every 200 feet.

20. The applicant has indicated that the site will be accessed approximately four times per year

21. The South Salt Lake City Engineer has reviewed the proposed development, using the
    criteria found in SSL Code Section 17.06.050 B(3)(f): safety, alternative access points and
    potential for reciprocal or shared accesses, sight lines, impact on traffic flow, and site
    circulation. (This section of code is pending approval by the SSL City Council on July 12,
    2023.)
        a. Safety: The site requires both curb cuts for Dominion Energy employees to safely
             navigate vehicles and equipment around the site.
        b. Alternative access points and potential for reciprocal or shared accesses: N/A
        c. Sight lines: The amount of traffic expected for this site is not anticipated to create
             any issues with sight lines.
        d. Impact on traffic flow: Because the site will only be accessed approximately four
             times per year, the impact on traffic flow will be negligible.
        e. Site circulation: Once the site is built out and all infrastructure is in place, both curb
                                                 3
              cuts are required for the safe navigation of vehicles and equipment through the site.

   22. No delivery vehicles will visit the site. All vehicular traffic will come from Dominion Energy
       employees visiting the site.


Conclusions of Law:

   1. The use, as specifically conditioned below, is consistent with the South Salt Lake City General
      Plan.

   2. The use, as specifically conditioned below, is compatible in use, scale, and design with
      allowed uses in the Flex land use district.

   3. The use, as specifically conditioned below, does not compromise the health, safety, or
      welfare of: Persons employed within or using the proposed development; Those residing or
      working in the vicinity of the proposed use or development; or Property or improvements in
      the vicinity of the proposed use or development.

   4. The use, as specifically conditioned below does not impose disproportionate burdens on the
      citizens of the city.

   5. The City Engineer is supportive of keeping the two curb cuts based on his findings that
      modifying the separation requirements does not reduce or diminish safe travel for
      pedestrians or vehicles; diminish site lines; or have a negative impact on traffic flow based
      on the anticipated trips to the site. Further, keeping two curb cuts enhances site circulation
      and safety for the vehicles anticipated to use the site and will result in safer ingress and
      egress.



Conditions of Approval:

   1. As needed, curb, gutter, and sidewalk will be installed along the frontage of 2100 South.
      Due to the nature of the Public Facility Use the two curb cuts are required, and because the
      City Engineer has reviewed and found this proposal eligible, the two existing curb cuts may
      be allowed to remain in place pending SSL Planning Commission approval.

   1. Applicant shall supply a landscape plan compliant with Section 17.06 of the SSL Municipal
      Code and the SSL Landscape Handbook as part of building permit approval within 180 days
      of the Conditional Use Permit being approved.

   2. The applicant shall comply with Crime Prevention through Environmental Design (CPTED)
      principles as required by Section 17.07 of the South Salt Lake Municipal Code.

   3. The applicant must submit a subdivision plat and have it recorded with the Salt Lake County
                                                   4
      Recorder’s Office prior to the building permit being released.

  4. The applicant must submit a building permit that is compliant with all design and
     development standards within 180 days of the Conditional Use Permit being approved.

  5. All trash on-site must be removed within 10 business days.

  6. All metering and external infrastructure shall be screened from view of the public right of
     way via landscaping or an alternative screening method.

  7. The applicant shall apply for and receive a South Salt Lake building permit prior to
     construction of a Public Utility Facility. The design of the building must comply with all
     design standards in Title 17.

  8. The applicant shall comply fully with the standards of the South Salt Lake Community
     Development Department, South Salt Lake Fire Marshal, South Salt Lake Building Official,
     and South Salt Lake Engineering Department as part of building permit approval.

  9. All fencing shall have access via a Knox box.

Exhibits (available on file with South Salt Lake City Community Development Department):

EXHIBIT A: CUP Application
EXHIBIT B: Property Affidavit
EXHIBIT C: Site Plan
EXHIBIT D: Staff Report

FOR SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY:                             FOR THE APPLICANT:



George Pechmann,                                      Dominion Energy
Planning Commission Chair




                                                 5
                                     PLANNING COMMISSION STAFF REPORT

MEETING DATE:            July 13, 2023
PROJECT NUMBER:          S-23-002
REQUEST(S):              A petition to the Planning Commission for a preliminary subdivision plat.
ADDRESS:                 919 W 2100 S
PARCEL NUMBER:           15-23-201-007
PROPERTY OWNER:          Minos Land Development, LLC
APPLICANT:               Dominion Energy, Brady Nowers, Representative
TYPE OF ITEM:            Administrative – Preliminary Subdivision Plat Approval

 STAFF RECOMMENDATION:
 Staff recommends the Planning
 Commission hold a public hearing
 and approve the preliminary
 subdivision plat at 919 West 2100
 South.

SYNOPSIS: November 18, 2022,
Dominion Energy (represented by
Brady Nowers), submitted a plat
application for the construction and
operation of a regulator station at 919
West 2100 South. The purpose of the
application and project is part of a
larger infrastructure replacement
program to better meet current and
future natural gas supply demand.
The total proposed structure would
be approximately 22 feet x 26 feet
(572 square feet total) and 10 feet in
height.
This parcel has never been legally
platted and is currently described in
metes and bounds, so this application
would bring the parcel into
compliance with South Salt Lake municipal code by legally platting it.

The applicant applied for a variance on 3/2/2023 for an exception to the minimum lot size standard of one acre in the Flex
land use district. The subject property is an existing parcel that is 0.7 acres in size. Upon review, the South Salt Lake City
Community Development Director determined that the subject property qualified for the requested variance based on
application of the five criteria outlined in Utah Code 10-9a-702 and South Salt Lake Municipal Code Section 17.12.010(B).

The Planning Commission is the Land Use Authority on all subdivision plat applications and amendments.

   EXISTING        EXISTING & PROPOSED           SURROUNDING LAND             PROPOSED TOTAL            PROPERTY ACCESS
   ZONING                   USE                     USE DISTRICTS                ACREAGE
                     Installation of piping
                                               Flex and Salt Lake City to
      Flex          and construction of a                                     Approx. 0.70 acres            2100 South
                                                      the North
                    new regulatory facility

                                                              1
                                      PLANNING COMMISSION STAFF REPORT

GENERAL INFORMATION:
    Location & Proposed Project Size:    Parcel Size: 0.7 acres
                                         Proposed Lot Size: 0.7 acres


    Surrounding Land Use Districts:      North: Salt Lake City
                                         South: Flex
                                         East: Flex
                                         West: Flex

Figure 1: Existing Parcel




                                                            2
Figure 2: Existing Site Conditions




Figure 4: Applicant’s Conceptual Site Plan




*SITE PLAN IS CONCEPTUAL – SUBJECT TO TECHNICAL REVIEW
                                                     3
Figure 5: ALTA Survey




Figure 6: Preliminary Plat **Preliminary Plat in attachments**




                                                           4
PLANNING COMMISSION AUTHORITY:

17.11.030. Land use authority designations.
Pursuant to state law, the following administrative land use authority designations are made:

    A. Planning Commission. The planning commission is the land use authority on issues of: subdivision and subdivision
       plat approval.


GENERAL PLAN CONSIDERATIONS:

Land Use & Neighborhoods Goal 3, Page 28: Enhance urban and streetscape design in the city to support South Salt Lake’s
distinct image and enhance community pride.

        Analysis: The proposed project will improve a parcel that is currently vacant by adding landscaping and a sidewalk.

Community Facilities Goal 1, Strategy 2, Page 79: Encourage development that provides services in a logical, orderly manner
such that adequate streets, water, sewer, drainage facilities, schools, and other essential services can be provided, both
efficiently and economically.

        Analysis: The proposed regulator station will allow citizens in South Salt Lake and throughout the Salt Lake valley to
        have consistent access to natural gas.

Community Facilities Goal 1, Strategy 4, Page 79: Ensure an equitable access to services within neighborhoods and serving
areas of higher density housing.

        Analysis: The proposed project will, as part of Dominion Energy’s larger infrastructure improvement plan, help
        ensure that natural gas is available to residents throughout the South Salt Lake valley.


ORDINANCE ANALYSIS
                  Ordinance                                        Finding                          Notes / Insufficiency
                                                    Title 17 – Land Use
   17.03.090 – Flex district
    1. The minimum area for a new Lot in the      The proposed lot is 0.7 acres.                The applicant applied for a
        district is one (1) acre.                                                               variance. It was granted on
                                                                                                April 13, 2023 for an
                                                                                                exception to the minimum
                                                                                                lot size and it was approved
                                                                                                for a 0.7-acre lot.
   17.06.150    B§ 3– Access Management
    B. Lots that have frontage greater than       The proposed lot has approximately 180        Pending      City      Council
        100 feet may have one additional          feet of frontage. It has two drive            approval on July 12, 2023,
        drive approach every 100 feet.            approaches that are approximately 40          section 17.06.150 B (3)(f)
                                                  feet apart.                                   states that lots that have
                                                                                                frontage greater than 100
                                                                                                feet may have an approved
                                                                                                modification to the drive
                                                                                                approach           separation
                                                                                                requirements based on:
                                                                                                safety, alternative access
                                                                                                points and potential for
                                                                                                reciprocal     or      shared
                                                                                                accesses, sight lines, impact
                                                             5
                                                                                            on traffic flow, and site
                                                                                            circulation. Based on these
                                                                                            factors, the City Engineer has
                                                                                            determined        that     the
                                                                                            proposed lot may keep the
                                                                                            existing drive approaches.
17.10.140 – Subdivision Development Lot Standards
A. All Final Plats shall result in the The proposed new lot will be compliant
    creation of compliant Lots and Building with South Salt Lake standards.
    sites.
B. Frontage on public street.                 The proposed development will front on
                                              2100 South. Access is proposed to come
                                              from 2100 South.
C. Street right-of-way shall be separate The lot is separate from the Right of Way
    and distinct from subdivided lots.        and development is to take place within
                                              the property lines and applicable
                                              setbacks.
D. Minimum area and dimensions shall The Flex Zone requires a minimum
    conform.                                  acreage of one acre for a new non-
                                              residential lot. The proposed lot is
                                              approximately 0.7 acres and has received
                                              a lot size variance from the City of South
                                              Salt Lake.
E. Side boundary lines shall be at right Due to the shape of the existing parcel,           Because this is an existing
    angles to the street.                     not all lot lines are at right angles to      parcel, not all lot lines will be
                                              street lines.                                 right angles to the street.
F. Side boundary lines of lots shall be Not applicable
    radial to center of a Cul-de-Sac
G. Corner lots for residential uses shall be Not applicable
    platted wider than interior lots
H. Lots shall not be divided by City All existing and proposed parcels are
    boundary                                  located within South Salt Lake City.
I. Double frontage residential lots           Not applicable
J. Minimum          separation      between Not applicable
    structures
K. Side lot lines shall be at right angles to Due to the shape of the existing parcel,      Because this is an existing
    street lines                              not all lot lines are at right angles to      parcel, not all lot lines will be
                                              street lines.                                 right angles to the street.
L. Dimensions of Corner Lots shall be large The final site plan indicates sufficient size   A lot size variance was
    enough to allow for erection of to allow for erection of buildings.                     granted, but the smaller lot
    Buildings                                                                               size will not impact the
                                                                                            erection of buildings.
M. Depth and width of properties shall be      Not applicable
   adequate to provide for off-street
   parking and loading facilities
N. New Single-Family lots shall not front on   Not applicable
   an Arterial or Collector Street
O. If Access from an Arterial or Collector     Not applicable
   Street is necessary for new adjoining
   lots, such lots shall be served by
   separate local street
P. Driveways shall be designed and             There is ingress and egress provided
   arranged to avoid vehicles backing onto     from 2100 South. Neither entrance will
   Streets                                     force vehicles to back onto streets.

                                                          6
   Q. Lots shall be laid out to provide positive   Per the Engineering review, there is
      drainage away from all buildings.            positive drainage away from all buildings.

17.10.150 – Subdivision Layout Requirements
    A. Frontage on and Arrangement to              No dedications are required.
        Improved Roads
17.10.160 – Drainage and Storm Sewers
    A. Location. Upon recommendation of            Not applicable per Engineering review.
        City Engineer, applicants may be
        required to carry away by pipe or open
        channel any spring or surface water
        that may exist either previously to or
        as a result of the subdivision.
    B. Adequate underground stormwater             Per the engineering review, there is an
        systems shall be constructed and           adequate underground stormwater
        maintained.                                system.
    C. Accommodation             of    Upstream    Not applicable
        Drainage Areas.
    D. Adequate storm / flood water drainage       Per the engineering review, there is
        will be provided to an approved            adequate storm or flood water drainage.
        drainage watercourse or facility with
        capacity.
    E. Areas of poor drainage shall be             Sufficient drainage is provided per
        remediated as applicable.                  Engineering review.
    F. Flood plain areas shall be preserved        Not Applicable
        upon recommendation of City
        Engineer when necessary for the
        health, safety, or welfare of the
        population of the area.
17.10.170 – Water Facilities
    A. Applicant shall extend public culinary      There is currently adequate water supply
        water supply-system for the purpose        provisions per SSL Engineering review.
        of providing an adequate water-supply
        to the Plat
    B. Applicant shall install adequate water      The site already has adequate water
        facilities including fire hydrants.        facilities including fire hydrants per the
                                                   SSL Fire Marshal.
    C. Fire flow shall be approved by the Fire     Per the Deputy Fire Marshal, a fire flow
       Marshal.                                    test was not needed for this plat.
    D. Water main extensions shall meet the        Not applicable.
       City’s standards.
    E. A determination shall be made as to         Not applicable. There are no facilities at
       location or extent of facilities to be      this location to be maintained by South
       maintained by South Salt Lake City, if      Salt Lake City.
       any.
    F. Fire hydrants required for all plats.       The site already has adequate fire
                                                   hydrants per the SSL Fire Marshal.
17.10.180 – Sewer Facilities
    A. Applicant shall install sanctuary sewer     A will serve letter has been submitted
        facilities in a manner prescribed by the   from Mt. Olympus Improvement District.
        applicable sanitary sewer authority.
    B. Sanitary sewer facilities shall connect     A will serve letter has been submitted
        with the public sanitary sewer at sizes    from Mt. Olympus Improvement District.


                                                              7
        required by the sanitary sewer
        authority.
17.10.190 – Utilities
    A. Utility facilities shall be located                                                    This will be evaluated by the
        underground in new subdivisions.                                                      SSL City Engineer at the time
                                                                                              of permit submission.
    B. Easements centered on Rear Lot Lines       All utilities already have easements.
        shall be provided for private and
        municipal utilities; such easements
        shall be at least 10’ wide.
17.10.200 – Sidewalks, Trails and Bike Paths
    A. Subdivision shall comply with the          Not applicable – both 2100 South and
        applicable road profile.                  900 West are UDOT controlled streets.

.
    B. Trails, pedestrian paths, and bike paths   Not applicable.
        shall     relate    appropriately    to
        topography.
    C. Trails, pedestrian paths, and bike paths   Not applicable.
        shall be provided in accordance with
        the Trails Master Plan.
17.10.210 – Nonresidential Subdivisions
    A. Proposed industrial Parcels shall be       Not applicable.
        suitable in Area and dimensions to the
        types of industrial Development
        anticipated.
    B. Street       Rights-of-Way     subbase,    Not applicable.
        pavement width, and pavement depth
        shall be adequate to accommodate the
        type.
    C. Every effort shall be made to protect      The proposed development is not
        adjacent residential Areas from           adjacent to any residential areas.
        potential nuisance from a proposed
        commercial or industrial Subdivision.

STAFF RECOMMENDATION:
Based upon the information submitted in the application, supporting documentation, and analysis of the relevant code
sections and general plan goals, Staff recommends the Planning Commission move to approve, with conditions, the final
subdivision plat amendment and proposes the following findings of fact and conclusions of law and conditions of approval:

Findings of Fact:

    1.    The subject property, located at 919 West 2100 South, consists of one metes and bounds parcel.
    2.    The parcel is located in the Flex zone.
    3.    All new lots in the Flex zone shall meet the one-acre minimum.
    4.    The proposed subdivision will legally plat one lot that will be approximately 0.7 acres in size.
    5.    The applicant received a variance for an exception to the minimum lot size for a 0.7-acre lot on April 13, 2023.
    6.    The proposed development falls into the Public Utility Facility land use category.
    7.    The Public Utility Facility use is a conditional land use in the Flex zone.
    8.    The subject property received a conditional use permit from the City of South Salt Lake on September 1, 2022.
    9.    The subject property is currently vacant.
    10.   The proposed lot will be served by existing access points on 2100 South.
    11.   The South Salt Lake City Engineer has reviewed the proposed development, using the criteria found in SSL Code
          Section 17.06.050 B(3)(f): safety, alternative access points and potential for reciprocal or shared accesses, sight

                                                             8
          lines, impact on traffic flow, and site circulation. (This section of code is pending approval by the SSL City Council
          on July 12, 2023.)


Conclusions of Law:

    1.    The subdivision, as specifically conditioned below, is consistent with the South Salt Lake City General Plan.
    2.    The subdivision, as specifically conditioned below is compatible in use, scale, and design with the allowed uses in
          the Flex zone.
    3.    The subdivision as specifically conditioned below, does not compromise the health, safety, or welfare of: Persons
          employed within or using the proposed development; Those residing or working in the vicinity of the proposed
          use or development; or Property or improvements in the vicinity of the proposed use or development.
    4.    The subdivision, as specifically conditioned below does not impose disproportionate burdens on the citizens of
          the city.
    5.    The City Engineer has determined that the use is eligible to have two curb cuts under the criteria outlined in SSL
          Code section 17.06.050 B (3)(f).
    6.    Staff has reviewed this subdivision for compliance with SSL Municipal Code Section “17.10.140 Subdivision
          Development Lot Standards” and found that this subdivision is compliant with this section, as outlined above.
    7.    Staff has reviewed this subdivision for compliance with SSL Municipal Code Section “17.10.150 Subdivision and
          Condominium Plat Layout Requirements” and found that this subdivision is compliant with this section, as
          outlined above.
    8.    Staff has reviewed this subdivision for compliance with SSL Municipal Code Sections 17.10.160, 17.10.170,
          17.10.180, 17.10.190, 17.10.200, and 17.10.210, and found that this subdivision is compliant with those sections,
          as outlined above.

Conditions of Approval:

    1.    The applicant will continue to work with City staff to make all technical corrections necessary prior to recording;
    2.    Prior to plat recordation and any additional development of the subsequent lot, the applicant must provide city
          staff the final plat mylar to include notarized signatures of owners’ consent to dedication; obtain signatures of
          all entities indicated on the subdivision plat attached hereto;
    3.    The applicant shall complete (or post an adequate improvement completion assurance), warrant and post
          required warranty assurance for all required landscaping and public infrastructure improvements;
    4.    The applicant shall ensure that all site improvements are installed consistent with the requirements of the South
          Salt Lake City Municipal Code;
    5.    The applicant shall dedicate an easement to the City of South Salt Lake for purposes of storm water management
          practices and ensure the plat includes language of the dedication of such easement, in a form as approved by the
          City Attorney’s Office;
    6.    The proposed building shall be constructed according to South Salt Lake commercial design standards;
    7.    The plans shall provide a fencing plan that is constructed according to South Salt Lake commercial design
          standards;
    8.    All items of the staff report.

PLANNING COMMISSION OPTIONS:


    Option 1: Approval
    Move to approve the application by Brady Nowers on behalf of Dominion Energy for a preliminary subdivision plat for a
    single-lot subdivision of the subject property located at 919 West 2100 South, with the conditions enumerated in the
    staff report and on the record.

    Option 2: Denial
    Move to deny the application by Brady Nowers on behalf of Dominion Energy for a preliminary subdivision plat for a
    single-lot subdivision of the subject property located at 919 West 2100 South, for the reasons stated on the record.

    Option 3: Continuance
                                                              9
   Move to table the decision on the application by Brady Nowers on behalf of Dominion Energy for a preliminary
   subdivision plat for a single-lot subdivision of the subject property located at 919 West 2100 South to a date certain to
   allow the Applicant and Staff time to respond to specific inquiries or concerns raised by the Planning Commission, or to
   allow the Planning Commission more time to consider the proposal.


Attachments:
    1.  ALTA Survey
    2.  Preliminary Subdivision Plat




                                                           10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SURVEYOR'S NARRATIVE

                       CALL BLUESTAKES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I, Patrick M. Harris do hereby state that I am a Professional Land Surveyor and that I hold certificate no. 286882 as prescribed by the laws of the State of Utah and represent that I have made a survey of the following
                 R     @ 811 AT LEAST 48 HOURS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              described property. The Purpose of this survey is to provide an ALTA/NSPS Land Title Survey for use by the client. The vesting description for the subject parcel contains patent errors which have been conveyed between the
                       PRIOR TO THE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         previous land owners for the last few conveyances of this property. The correct boundary for this parcel was determined by accepting the property boundary determination by Carl Larsen LS 142765 recorded as Survey
                       COMMENCEMENT OF ANY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S98-01-0988 with comparison to and honoring the vesting descriptions for UDOT acquisitions 100:A from project SP-15-7 (116)304 and 40B:A from project F-018-1(2). The Basis of Bearing is between the found Salt Lake City
Know what's below.
   Callbefore you dig. CONSTRUCTION.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Monument at 900 W and 2100 S Street and the found Salt Lake City Monument at 955 W and 2100 S Street measuring North 84°43'34" West 1019.07 feet (measured).

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  COMMITMENT DESCRIPTIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ENSIGN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     THE STANDARD IN ENGINEERING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PROPOSED DOMINION 900 WEST SUBDIVISION, Located in the Northwest Quarter of Section 23, Township 1 South, Range 1 West, Salt Lake Base and Meridian, South Salt Lake City, Salt Lake County, Utah and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            being more particularly described by survey as follows:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SALT LAKE CITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Beginning at a point on the Southerly Right-of-Way of 2100 South Street, said point being North 84°43'34" West 289.87 feet and South 05°16'26" West 50.00 feet and South 00°03'15" West 7.77 feet from the Salt Lake
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            City Monument in the intersection of 900 West Street and 2100 South Street, and running;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       45 W. 10000 S., Suite 500
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Sandy, UT 84070
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    thence the following four (4) courses along the south line of that certain parcel designated as 100:A defined in that certain Final Order of Condemnation recorded November 11, 1999 as Entry No. 7502021:                         Phone: 801.255.0529
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1)      South 85°29'43" East 49.83 feet;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2)      South 88°42'38" East 76.76 feet;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3)      South 84°42'51" East 54.01 feet;                                                                                                                                                                                                   LAYTON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4)      South 41°59'24" East 32.55 feet to a point on the west line of 900 West Street;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Phone: 801.547.1100
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    thence South 48.13 feet along the west line of 900 West Street to the former location of a Utah State Right-of-Way marker;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       TOOELE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    thence the following two (2) courses along the northerly lines of that certain parcel designated as 40B:A defined in that certain Quit Claim Deed recorded December 18, 1963 as Entry No. 1967027:                                 Phone: 435.843.3590
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1)      South 00°33'00" East 66.10 feet along the west line of 900 West Street to an existing highway right of way fence;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2)      South 85°29'00" West 203.37 feet along an existing highway right of way fence;                                                                                                                                                     CEDAR CITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    thence North 00°02'49" East 165.05 feet to the Point of Beginning.                                                                                                                                                                 Phone: 435.865.1453
            SALT LAKE COUNTY
            STREET MONUMENT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            RICHFIELD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OHP
       2100 SOUTH & 1018 WEST
    (FOUND 3" FLAT BRASS CAP)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        FO                                                                                                             To: (i)Questar Gas Company, dba Dominion Energy Utah, a Utah corporation; (ii)US Title Insurance Agency; and (iv)Meridian Title Company.                                                                                                   Phone: 435.896.2983
                                                           SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       This is to certify that this map or plat and the survey on which it is based were made in accordance with 2021 Minimum Standard Detail Requirements for ALTA/NSPS Land Title Surveys, jointly established and adopted by
                                                                            729.20'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ALTA and NSPS, and includes items 1, 2, 3, 4, 8, 11, 13, and 19 of Table A hereof.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SS
                                                                                                   G                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SS                                                                                                                           The field work was completed on October 20, 2022.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              BASIS OF BEAR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NORTH 84°43'3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4" WEST 1019.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ING                                                                                                                                                                                                               SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    WWW.ENSIGNENG.CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0' (R) 1019.07' (M                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EXIST. SSMH                                                    Date of Plat or Map: December 7, 2022.
                                                                EXIST. SD VAULT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    )




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   289.87' (R)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OHP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    FOR:
                                                      SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2100 SOUTH S
                                                                                                                                G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               STREET MONUMENT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DOMIONION ENERGY
                                                     SDV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TREET
                                                                                                                                                          S 5°16'26" W


                                                                               SD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2100 SOUTH & 900 WEST                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CLIENT'S ADDRESS
                                                                                                                                   SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (UDOT CONTR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CLIENT CITY STATE ZIP
                                                                                                                                                             50.00'


                                                                                                                                                                                               SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OLLED)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (FOUND 2" ROUND BRASS CAP)
                                                                                                                                                                    SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                    NORTH
                                                                                                                                                                    50.00'
                                                                                                                                                                    EAST
                                                                                                                                                                    WEST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CONTACT:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CLIENT CONTACT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              12/22/22
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SDV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EXIST. SD VAULT                                                            SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SD                       SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SD                              SD                                                                              EXIST. SD VAULT                                                                                                                                       __________      ___________                      ___________________________                                                                                                                                                            PHONE:    801-000-0000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SD                                                                                                                                                SD                                           SD
                                                                SD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SDV                                                                                                                                                                            Date                                             Patrick M. Harris




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W
                                                                                                 SD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SD                                                                                                                                                                                  License No. 286882
                                                                                                                                                                                                    EXIST. SDCO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OHP
                                                                                                                                                                  SD
                                                                                                                      G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                          SD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        D
                                                                                                                                                                                              17                                                        SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SD                                           Note: For conditions of record not shown hereon as well as specific references to items in the title report, please refer to a title report supplied by US Title Insurance Agency of Draper, Utah under Commitment No. 061311
                                                                     ELEC POLE E
                                                                                                S 0°02'49" W
                                                                                                                        WEST
                                                                                                                        7.75'
                                                                                                                        NORTH
                                                                                                                        EAST
                                                                                                                        SOUTH




                                                                                                                                                      E                                                                               21                                                                                                SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Amendment 1, dated effective October 5, 2022.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ALTA-NSPS LAND TITLE SURVEY
                                                                     TRAFFIC                            7.77'                                                                S 85°29'43"E E
                                                                                                                                                                                     49.83'
                                                                                                                                                                                     EAST
                                                                                                                                                                                     WEST
                                                                                                                                                                                     SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                     NORTH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CURB & GUTTE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  17                                                                                                        SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SD
                                               TRAFFIC SIG                                         X                                                                                                                                                    E                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SD                                                                                    Schedule B-2 Exceptions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S 88°42'38"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      76.76'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      NORTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      WEST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EAST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SOUTH




                                               BOX (SMALL)                         SIGN                                                                                         49
                                                                                                                                                                                 FO.83'                                                SIDEWALK                                       E E
                                                                             GAS LINE SIGN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          E
                                                     (TYP)                                                                                                                                                         FO                                                          76.76'                                                                                              E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S 84°42'51" E                                              17                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1.     Taxes or assessments which are not shown as existing liens by the records of any taxing authority that levies taxes or assessments on real property or by the public records. Proceedings by a public agency which
                                                                              POINT OF BEGINNING                                                                                                                                                                      FO                                                                                                                                WM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SET NAIL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            may result in taxes or assessments, or notice of such proceedings, whether or not shown by the records of such agency or the public records.
                                                                                  SET BAR AND CAP                                                                                                                              OH&
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 P                                           SIGN                         FO   SIGN                                                                                             54.01' E                                                        EXIST. TRAFFIC LIGHT
                                                                                                                                  CHAIN LINK FENCE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                        WASHER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EAST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       54.01'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       WEST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       NORTH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    OHP                                                                   FOSET NAIL &
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S 41°59'24" E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             WEST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             32.55'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EAST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             NORTH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EXIST                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2.      Any facts, rights, interests or claims which are not shown by the public records but which could be ascertained by an inspection of said land or by making inquiry of persons in possession thereof.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           WASHER         EXIST. WATER METER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GUY WIRE                                                                                             OHP                                                            FO                                        SET NAIL & TRAFFIC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                FO     WASHER                     TRAFFIC                                                    32.55'                                                                                                                                                         3.     Easements, claims of easement or encumbrances which are not shown by the public records.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              OHP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    21
                                                                                                                                                      X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W                                                                                                                           E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OHP                                                                                  SIGN                                                                                    EXIST. WATER MH                                                                                 4.     Discrepancies, conflicts in boundary line, shortage in area, encroachments or any other facts which a correct survey would disclose, and which are not shown by the public records.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TRAFFIC SIG BOX SMALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DOMINION ENERGY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W OHP                                           W                                                                                                                                   W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EXIST. WATER MH                                                                                                                                                                                                  (TYP) W                                      WV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OHP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OHP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EXIST.                                                                                                                    W                        W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EXIST. WATVLV                                                                               5.     Unpatented mining claim: reservations or exceptions in patents or in acts authorizing the issuance thereof:water rights, claims, or title to water.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GUY WIRE                                                                                          OHP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TRATFF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EXIST.                                                                                                  E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       RTAIRFCFI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CABLE                                                                                      OHP              E                                              E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              AFCFIC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EXIST. WATER MH                                                                               ELEC POLE                                                                                                                                                      OHP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SIGN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             6.      Any lien, or right to a lien, for services, labor or material theretofore or hereafter furnished, imposed by law and not shown by the public records.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  919 WEST 2100 SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SET BAR                                CABLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ASP                                                                                                                                                                           AND CAP                                                                                                                                                                                                                       7.     Any defect, lien, encumbrance, adverse claim, or other matter that appears for the first time in the Public Records or is created, attaches, or is disclosed between the Report Date and the date on which all of the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    HA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Schedule B, Part I Requirements are met.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LT                                                                                                                                                                       EXIST.
                                                                                                                                                      X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CABLE BOX
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EXIST. GUY WIRE                                                                                                                                                                                                                        8.      General property taxes for the year 2022 now due and payable, but will not become delinquent until December 1st. Tax ID No. 15-23-201-007-0000. Taxes have been assessed in the amount of $7,560.78.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EXIST. TRAFFIC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OHP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OHP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LIGHT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            9.      General property taxes for the year 2021 as of the date of this report are not paid, and are in the amount of $61.10, plus penalties and interest under Parent Tax ID No. 15-23-201-003-0000.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            NOTE: Check with the Salt Lake County Treasurer's Office for payoff and payment information regarding this account.
                                                                                    G. ALDEN PADFIELD FAMILY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   48.13'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NORTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  WEST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EAST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  48.13'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            10.     Any charge upon the land by reason of its inclusion in South Salt Lake City (Phone No. 483-6074).




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                900 WEST STREET
                                                                                                                                                      X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  W
                                                                                                                   N 00°02'49" E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            11.     Any water rights or claims or title to water in or under the land.
                                                                                          LIVING TRUST
                                                                                           15-23-201-006




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (UDOT CONTROLLED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          FLOOD ZONE X
                                                                                                                      165.05'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.2 PCT ANNUAL HAZARD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  12.   All rights, title or interest in minerals of any kind, oil, gas, coal or other hydrocarbons and the consequences of the right to mine or remove such substances including, but not limited to, express or implied




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SET BAR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  OHP

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              OHP




                                                                                                                                            NORTH
                                                                                                                                            WEST
                                                                                                                                            EAST
                                                                                                                                            165.05'
                                                                                                                                            SOUTH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TOTAL PARCEL                                                                                                                                                                                                     AND CAP                                                                                                                                                                                 easements and rights to enter upon and use the surface of the land for the exploration, drilling or extraction related purposes.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CONTAINS 30,359 sq. ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.697 acres                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (The company does not purport to disclose documents of record pertaining to the above referenced rights.)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TEL BOX
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            13.     All existing roads, streets, alleys, ditches, reservoirs, utilities, canals, pipelines, power poles, telephone, sewer, gas or water lines and rights-of-way and easements thereof.
                                                                                                                                                      X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              FLOOD ZONE X                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  14.     Lack of Access to and from the 2100 South Freeway as evidenced by that certain Quit Claim Deed recorded December 18, 1963 as Entry No. 1967027 in Book 2134 at Page 637 of Official Records. (Shown on
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MINIMAL ANNUAL HAZARD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             14                                                                                                                                                                             survey)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                OHP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OHP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CURB & GUTT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SIDEWALK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            15.     The terms, conditions, restrictions and covenants disclosed by that certain Correction Warranty Deed recorded November 5, 1979 as Entry No. 3360630 in Book 4979 at Page 929 of Official Records.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S 00°33'00" E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            16.    Subject to any matters disclosed on that certain survey prepared by Larsen & Malmquist, Inc., having been certified under the date of May 20, 1997 as Job No. 03486-975, by M. Carl Larsen, a Registered Land




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               66.10'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Surveyor holding License No. 142765 and filed with the Salt Lake County Surveyor as Survey No. S98-01-0098.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W
                                                                                                                                                      X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           WEST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EAST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           66.10'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NORTH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            17.    Limited and/or Controlled Access as disclosed in that certain Final Order of Condemnation recorded November 1, 1999 as Entry No. 7502021 in Book 8319 at Page 8196 of Official Records. (Shown on survey)
                                                                                                                                CHAIN LINK FENCE




                                                                                                                                                                                          FLOOD ZONE X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     AS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SS
                                                                                                                                                                                     0.2 PCT ANNUAL HAZARD                                                                                                                                                               PH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              AL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            18.    Subject to any matters disclosed on that certain survey prepared by Ensign Engineering, having been certified under the date of December 9, 2020 as Job No. 9737, by William L. Clark, a Registered Land
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                T                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Surveyor holding License No. 5251265 and filed with the Salt Lake County Surveyor as Survey No. S2021-10-0607.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            OHP


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                OHP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EXIST. SSMH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         19                                                                                                                                                                                                           S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            19.    Easement and the terms, conditions and limitations contained therein, in favor of the City of South Salt Lake, a municipal corporation of the State of Utah, recorded December 22, 2021 as Entry No. 13853400 in
                                                                                                                                                                                                          FLOOD ZONE X                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SS                                                                  Book 11285 at Page 9412 of Official Records. (Shown on survey)
                                                                                                                                                                                                     MINIMAL ANNUAL HAZARD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             W
                                                                                                                                                      X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SS                                                                                                    20.     Conditional Use Permit and the terms, conditions and limitations contained therein, recorded September 12, 2022 as Entry No. 14014679 in Book 11371 at Page 8899 of Official Records.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  X                                                                                 SET BAR                                  SS                                                                                                                                             21.   Easement and the terms, conditions and limitations contained therein, in favor of Utah Power & Light Company, a corporation, its successors and interests and assigns, recorded June 19, 1980 as Entry No.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       X                                                                REBAR                                       AND CAP                                                                                                                                                                                 3445104 in Book 5113 at Page 904 of Official Records. (Shown on survey)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        X                                                    CHAIN LINK FENC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    X                                                                                                                                    14            FENCE POST SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        S 85°29'00" W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OHP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        NORTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        203.37'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EAST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        WEST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OHP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            X                                                                                                                                                                                            FENCE POST                                                                                                                                                                                                                         22.    Note: No existing Deed of Trust appears of record. If this information is not correct, please notify the company as soon as possible to provide information regarding the existing loan.
                                                                                                                                                                                                               X                   E
                                                                                                       X                                                                         X                                 CHAIN LINK FENC                                                                                          203.37'                                                                                                          SS
                                                                                                                       SET BAR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W
                                                                                                                                                                                                           14                                                                                                                                                                                           SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TRAFFIC SIG BOX (SMALL)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TRAFFIC

                                                                                                                       AND CAP                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EXIST. WATER MH                                                                           ((TYP)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         NAL ND S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             STATE ROADLL2ED)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TABLE A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        IO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     12/22/22




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     UR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               S
                                                                                                               G                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SS                                                                                                                                                                  W                              WV




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (UDOT CONTRO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PROFE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1)     All monuments used and set are shown on survey.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EXIST. WATER VALVE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       No. 286882




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         YOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2)     Address is 919 West 2100 South, Salt Lake City, Utah.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3)     Flood Zone Designation X per Fema Flood Panel 49035C0281E effective date 09/21/2001                                                                                                                                                               PATRICK M.
                                                                                                                                                                             G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4)     Subject parcel contains 30,359 sq.ft. or 0.697 acres.                                                                                                                                                                                               HARRIS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            8)     Substantial features are shown on survey.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            11)    Existing utilities are shown on survey.                                                                                                                                                                                                      ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            13)    Shown on survey                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   AT               A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          E O F UT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            18)    All plottable easements are shown on survey.


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            NOTES:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1:   PARCEL CURRENTLY UNDER CONSTRUCTION.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       900 WEST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LEGEND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SECTION CORNER                                                                         STORM DRAIN CATCH BASIN                                                      MINOR CONTOURS 1' INCREMENT                                                                                             DEED LINE                                               SW                             SECONDARY WATERLINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2100 SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ALTA-NSPS LAND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MONUMENT                                                                                STORM DRAIN COMBO BOX                                                        MAJOR CONTOURS 5' INCREMENT                                                                                             TANGENT LINE                                            IRR                            IRRIGATION LINE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TITLE SURVEY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              D




                                                                                                                                                                                                               ENSIGN ENG.                                            EXIST REBAR AND CAP                                                                     STORM DRAIN CULVERT                                                          CONCRETE                                                                                                                SECTION LINE                                                                           CENTERLINE                                                                                                           SITE
                                                                                                                                                                                                               LAND SURV.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               HORIZONTAL GRAPHIC SCALE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SET ENSIGN REBAR AND CAP                                                               SIGN                                                E                        ELECTRIC METER                                                                                X                         FENCE                                                                                  PROPERTY LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              WEST BOUND ON-RAMP                                                                                                 20                      0        10        20                 40
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SET RIVET                                               U                              UTILITY MANHOLE                                     D                        STORM DRAIN CLEAN OUT                                                                                                   EDGE OF ASPHALT                                                                        ADJACENT PROPERTY LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PROJECT NUMBER           PRINT DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SR-201                                                                                                                                                                           9737                      12/22/22
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      WM                               WATER METER                                                                            UTILITY POLE                                        S                        SANITARY SEWER MANHOLE                                                                       SS                         SANITARY SEWER                                              E                          ELECTRIC POWERLINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ( IN FEET )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DRAWN BY                 CHECKED BY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         HORZ: 1 inch = 20 ft.
Note to the client, insurer and lender- With regard to Table A, item 11 source information from plans and markings will                                                                                                               W                                WATER MANHOLE                                                                          GAS METER                                           W                        WATER LINE                                                                                   SD                         STORM DRAIN LINE                                            T                          TELEPHONE LINE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            BDH                       P. HARRIS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             IRR
be combined with observed evidence of utilities pursuant to Section 5.E.iv. to develop a view of the underground                                                                                                                      WV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PROJECT MANAGER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       WATER VALVE                                                                            TREE                                                                         ADJACENT RIGHT OF WAY                                                                         G                         GAS LINE                                                                               IRRIGATION VALVE
utilities. However, lacking excavation, the exact location of underground features cannot be accurately, completely                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LOCATED IN THE NORTHEAST QUARTER                                  P. HARRIS
and reliably depicted. In addition, in some jurisdictions, 811 or other similar utility locate requesters from surveyors                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OF SECTION 23,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      FIRE HYDRANT                                            OHP                             OVERHEAD POWER LINE                                                          RIGHT OF WAY                                                                                                            BUILDING PRIMARY                                            #                          SCHEDULE B-2 REFERENCE NUMBER


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1 OF 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  H




may be ignored or result in an incomplete response, in which case the surveyor shall note on the plat or map how this
affected the surveyor's assessment of the location of the utilities. Where additional or more detailed information is
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TOWNSHIP 1 SOUTH, RANGE 1 WEST,
required, the client is advised that excavation and/or private utility locate request may be necessary.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VICINITY MAP                                                                                SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (NOT TO SCALE)                                                                       SOUTH SALT LAKE, SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SURVEYOR'S CERTIFICATE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                900 WEST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DOMINION 900 WEST SUBDIVISION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                I,        PATRICK M. HARRIS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          License No.         286882
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      , do hereby certify that I am a Professional Land Surveyor in the State of Utah and that I hold
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              in accordance with Title 58, Chapter 22, of the Professional Engineers and Land Surveyor's Act; I further
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          certify that by authority of the Owners, I have completed a survey of the property described on this subdivision plat in accordance with
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Section 17-23-17 and have verified all measurements; that the reference monuments shown on this plat are located as indicated and are
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2100 SOUTH                                                                  sufficient to accurately establish the lateral boundaries of the herein described tract of real property; and has been drawn correctly to the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LOCATED IN THE NORTHEAST QUARTER OF SECTION 23,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          designated scale and is a true and correct representation of the herein described lands included in said subdivision, based upon data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TOWNSHIP 1 SOUTH, RANGE 1 WEST, SALT LAKE BASE & MERIDIAN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             compiled from records of the county recorders office. I further certify that all lots meet frontage width and area requirements of the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SITE                                             applicable zoning ordinances.


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        WEST BOUND ON-RAMP                                                                                                             BOUNDARY DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Beginning at a point on the Southerly Right-of-Way of 2100 South Street, said point being North 84°43'34" West 289.87 feet and South
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       05°16'26" West 50.00 feet and South 00°03'15" West 7.77 feet from the street Monument in the intersection of 900 West Street and 2100
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       South Street, and running;

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              thence the following four (4) courses along the south line of that certain parcel designated as 100:A defined in that certain Final Order
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       of Condemnation recorded November 11, 1999 as Entry No. 7502021:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1)     South 85°29'43" East 49.83 feet;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2)     South 88°42'38" East 76.76 feet;
                                                                                            SALT LAKE COUNTY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VICINITY MAP                                                    3)     South 84°42'51" East 54.01 feet;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          NOT TO SCALE                                                 4)     South 41°59'24" East 32.55 feet to a point on the west line of 900 West Street;
                                                                                            STREET MONUMENT
                                                                                       2100 SOUTH & 1018 WEST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                thence South 48.13 feet along the west line of 900 West Street to the former location of a Utah State Right-of-Way marker;
                                                                                    (FOUND 3" FLAT BRASS CAP)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              thence the following two (2) courses along the northerly lines of that certain parcel designated as 40B:A defined in that certain Quit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Claim Deed recorded December 18, 1963 as Entry No. 1967027:
                                                                                                                          729.20'
                                                                                                        E   CO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1)     South 00°33'00" East 66.10 feet along the west line of 900 West Street to an existing highway right of way fence;
                                                                                                  LAK         UN
                                                                                                                 TY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2)     South 85°29'00" West 203.37 feet along an existing highway right of way fence;




                                                                                             TL
                                                                                           SA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            BASIS OF BEAR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NORTH 84°43'3                 ING                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               thence North 00°02'49" East 165.05 feet to the Point of Beginning.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              4" WEST 1019.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0' (R) 1019.07' (M
                                                                                                   MONUMENT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  289.87' (R)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1 Lot Contains 30,359 square feet or 0.697 acres.




                                                                                                                                                                                 S 5°16'26" W
                                                                                                                                                                                    50.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                   WEST
                                                                                                                                                                                   EAST
                                                                                                                                                                                   SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                   50.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                   NORTH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               STREET MONUMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2100 SOUTH S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2100 SOUTH & 900 WEST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (UDOT CONTR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TREET                                                                                                                                                                                                            (FOUND 2" ROUND BRASS CAP)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          OLLED)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Date
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        12/22/22                                         SURVEYOR NAME
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         P.L.S. SURVEYOR NO.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PHARRIS@ENSIGNUTAH.COM
                                                                                                                                                                       EAST
                                                                                                                                                                       7.77'
                                                                                                                                                                       WEST
                                                                                                                                                                       SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                       NORTH




                                                                                                                                                         S 0°03'15" W
                                                                                                                                                                 7.77'
                                                                                                                                                                                                               S 85°29'43" E        NORTH 49.83'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    EAST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    WEST  49.83'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           49.83'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            10.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    49.83'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S 88°42'38" E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EAST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            WEST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            NORTH 76.76'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  76.76'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   76.76'




                                                                                                                                                           POINT OF                                                                                                                                                76.76'                                                          S 84°42'51" E
                                                                                                                                                          BEGINNING                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      NORTH 54.01'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EAST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      WEST   54.01'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            54.01'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          54.01'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            NOTE:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.     ALL CORNERS TO BE SET.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 41 32.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                             10' P.U.E.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2.     Owner hereby conveys to South Salt Lake City and its agents a non-exclusive




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   °5 5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          UTAH POWER & LIGHT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        WEST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EAST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        32.55'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        NORTH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            perpetual easement over, on and in Lot 1 for the purpose of access to the private stormwater




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     9'2
      LEGEND                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            POWER EASEMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            management system(s) for the management, inspection, maintenance and repair thereof.                                                                                            NAL ND S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          IO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ENTRY NO. 3445104
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           12/22/22




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  UR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PROFE
                               EXISTING STREET MONUMENT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    No. 286882




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      YOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PATRICK M.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            HARRIS

     ENSIGN ENG.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S
     LAND SURV.                SET 5/8" REBAR AND CAP, OR NAIL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TE              TA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OF U




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           48.13'
                               STAMPED "ENSIGN ENG. & LAND
                               SURV." AT ALL LOT CORNERS. OFFSET
                               PINS TO BE PLACE IN THE BACK OF
                               CURB WHERE APPLICABLE, IN LIEU OF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           WEST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NORTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EAST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S 0°00'00"48.13'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     48.13'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       48.13'48.13'




                               REBAR AND CAP AT FRONT CORNERS.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SOUTH
                                                                                                                                            G. ALDEN PADFIELD FAMILY




                               BOUNDARY LINE
                                                                                                                                                                               165.05'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           900 WEST STREET
                               CENTER LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          OWNER'S DEDICATION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   10' P.U.E.
                                                                                                                                                  LIVING TRUST
                                                                                                                                                   15-23-201-006




                               EASEMENT LINE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (UDOT CONTROLLED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Know all men by these presents that the undersigned owner(s), DOMINION ENERGY a Utah corporation of the above described tract of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   10.0'




                               ADJOINING BOUNDARY LINE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 land, having caused same to be subdivided, hereafter known as
                                                                                                                                                                               N 0°02'49" E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DOMINION 900 WEST SUBDIVISION
                                                                                                                                                                                            SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                            EAST
                                                                                                                                                                                            WEST
                                                                                                                                                                                            NORTH 165.05'
                                                                                                                                                                                                  165.05'
                                                                                                                                                                                                   165.05'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LOT 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CONTAINS 30,359 sq. ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.697 acres                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            does hereby certify to have caused this plat to be prepared and does hereby dedicate for the perpetual use of the public all public roads
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            919 WEST 2100 SOUTH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        and other areas shown on this plat as intended for public use. The undersigned owner(s) also hereby conveys to any and all public utility




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      66.10'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       companies a perpetual, non-exclusive easement over the public utility easements shown on this plat, the same to be used for the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       installation, maintenance, and operation of utility lines and facilities. The undersigned owner(s) also hereby conveys any other easements
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       as shown on this plat to the parties indicated and for the purposes shown hereon.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       In witness whereof I / we have hereunto set our hand (s) this                day of                                  A.D., 20         .




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      S 0°33'00" E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EAST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      NORTH 66.10'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      WEST  66.10'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             66.10'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       By:


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       By:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CITY OF SOUTH SALT LAKE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PERPETUAL EASEMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ENTRY NO. 13853400
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (HATCHED)



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CORPORATE ACKNOWLEDGMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       STATE OF UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      203.37'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      }S.S.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EAST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               WEST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               NORTH 203.37'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     203.37'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      203.37'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S 85°29'00" W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            County of Salt Lake
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       On the            day of                                A.D., 20                  , personally appeared before me
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        , the signer of the foregoing instrument, who duly acknowledged to me that
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       he/she is the                                                  , of                                                                                ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                STATE ROAD 2D)                      LLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       a Utah Corporation, and is authorized to execute the foregoing Agreement in its behalf and that he/she executed it in such capacity.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (UDOT CONTRO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MY COMMISSION EXPIRES:                                                                 ,

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    RESIDING IN                                          COUNTY.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NOTARY PUBLIC




ROCKY MOUNTAIN POWER NOTES:
1. PURSUANT TO UTAH CODE ANN. § 54-3-27 THIS PLAT CONVEYS TO THE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                HORIZONTAL GRAPHIC SCALE
   OWNER(S) OR OPERATORS OF UTILITY FACILITIES A PUBLIC UTILITY
   EASEMENT ALONG WITH ALL THE RIGHTS AND DUTIES DESCRIBED THEREIN.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                20                     0         10          20                            40
2. PURSUANT TO UTAH CODE ANN. § 17-27A-603(4)(C)(II) ROCKY MOUNTAIN
   POWER ACCEPTS DELIVERY OF THE PUE AS DESCRIBED IN THIS PLAT AND
   APPROVES THIS PLAT SOLELY FOR THE PURPOSE OF CONFIRMING THAT
   THE PLAT CONTAINS PUBLIC UTILITY EASEMENTS AND APPROXIMATES THE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ( IN FEET )
   LOCATION OF THE PUBLIC UTILITY EASEMENTS, BUT DOES NOT WARRANT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         HORZ: 1 inch = 20 ft.
   THEIR PRECISE LOCATION. ROCKY MOUNTAIN POWER MAY REQUIRE OTHER
   EASEMENTS IN ORDER TO SERVE THIS DEVELOPMENT. THIS APPROVAL
   DOES NOT AFFECT ANY RIGHT THAT ROCKY MOUNTAIN POWER HAS UNDER:
    2.1. A RECORDED EASEMENT OR RIGHT-OF WAY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SHEET 1 OF 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SOUTH SALT LAKE COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
    2.2. THE LAW APPLICABLE TO PRESCRIPTIVE RIGHTS
    2.3. TITLE 54, CHAPTER 8A, DAMAGE TO UNDERGROUND UTILITY
         FACILITIES OR
    2.4. ANY OTHER PROVISION OF LAW.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DEVELOPER                                                        RECORD OF SURVEY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ROCKY MOUNTAIN POWER

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      APPROVED AS TO FORM THIS                   DAY OF                                                                                                       APPROVED AS TO FORM THIS               DAY OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PROJECT NUMBER :

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     MANAGER :             P. HARRIS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     9737
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DOMINION 900 WEST SUBDIVISION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DOMINION ENERGY                                                                                                                                  , A.D., 20    .                                                                                                                                         , A.D., 20    .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     DRAWN BY :            BDH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1140 WEST 200 SOUTH                                                ROS NO.:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LOCATED IN THE NORTHEAST QUARTER OF SECTION 23,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               S-2021-10-0607           .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CHECKED BY :            P. HARRIS                                   TOWNSHIP 1 SOUTH, RANGE 1 WEST, SALT LAKE BASE & MERIDIAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SALT LAKE CITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   800-323-5517                                                   _______________________ _______                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DATE : 12/22/22                                                          SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 COUNTY SURVEYOR REVIEWER           DATE                                    ROCKY MOUNTAIN POWER                                                                                                                 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SALT LAKE COUNTY RECORDER
                                                                    SALT LAKE COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT                                                 PLANNING COMMISSION                                                                                          SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY ENGINEER                                                                                  SOUTH SALT LAKE FIRE MARSHAL                                                                                                                    APPROVAL AS TO FORM                                                                  SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY APPROVAL                                                              RECORDED #
                                        LAYTON
                                        Phone: 801.547.1100
              SANDY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               STATE OF UTAH, COUNTY OF SALT LAKE, RECORDED AND FILED AT THE
                                        TOOELE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        APPROVED AS TO FORM THIS                            DAY OF               ,
              45 W 10000 S, Suite 500   Phone: 435.843.3590        APPROVED THIS            DAY OF                    ,                   APPROVED AS TO FORM THIS                                                 DAY OF                                     APPROVED AS TO FORM THIS                       DAY OF                                                             APPROVED AS TO FORM THIS                                DAY OF                                                                                                                                                         APPROVED AS TO FORM THIS                 DAY OF                           , A.D., 20        .
              Sandy, UT 84070                                      A.D., 20     .                                                                    , A.D., 20    .                                                                                                     , A.D., 20    .                                                                                                                                                                                                                              A.D., 20  .                                                                                                                                                                                 REQUEST OF :
                                        CEDAR CITY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         , A.D., 20    .
              Phone: 801.255.0529       Phone: 435.865.1453
                                        RICHFIELD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DATE:                                TIME:                                          BOOK:                    PAGE:
              WWW.ENSIGNENG.COM         Phone: 435.896.2983


                                                                                                                                    PLANNING COMMISSION APPROVAL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY MAYOR                          ATTEST: CITY RECORDER                                          FEE$                                       DEPUTY SALT LAKE COUNTY RECORDER
                                                                       SALT LAKE COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT                                                                                                                                                           SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY ENGINEER                                                                      SOUTH SALT LAKE FIRE MARSHAL                                                                                                                                 SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY ATTORNEY
                                   PLANNING COMMISSION STAFF REPORT

MEETING DATE:           July 13, 2023
PROJECT NUMBER:         S-23-002
REQUEST(S):             A petition to the Planning Commission for a final subdivision plat.
ADDRESS:                3751 S 300 W
PARCEL NUMBER:          15-36-402-036
PROPERTY OWNER:         Plymouth on Third, LLC
APPLICANT:              Ralph Nagasawa
TYPE OF ITEM:           Administrative – Final Subdivision Plat Approval

The Planning Commission
approved the preliminary plat
for this project on June 15,
2023. They did not raise any
concerns     and    expressed
excitement that a vacant lot is
being      proposed        for
redevelopment.

 STAFF RECOMMENDATION:
 Staff recommends the Planning
 Commission hold a public
 hearing and approve the final
 subdivision plat at 3751 S 300
 W.

SYNOPSIS:

On February 9, 2023, Ralph
Nagasawa, submitted a plat
application for the construction
and operation of a flex building at 3751 S 300 W to consist of a
showroom, warehouse, and office space. The proposed square
footage of the showroom and office portion of the building exceeds
50% of the total proposed square footage placing the proposed
development in the Retail, Neighborhood land use. The total
proposed structure would be approximately 10,000 square feet.
This parcel has never been legally platted and is currently described in metes and bounds, so this application would bring
the parcel into compliance with South Salt Lake municipal code by legally platting it.


The Planning Commission is the Land Use Authority on all subdivision plat applications and amendments.

   EXISTING       EXISTING & PROPOSED          SURROUNDING LAND             PROPOSED TOTAL          PROPERTY ACCESS
   ZONING                  USE                    USE DISTRICTS                ACREAGE
   Transit-
                    Existing Use: Vacant
   Oriented                                                                                            300 West and
                    Proposed Use: Retail,             Flex, TOD             Approx. 0.56 acres
 Development                                                                                         Plymouth Avenue
                       Neighborhood
    (TOD)

                                                            1
                                     PLANNING COMMISSION STAFF REPORT

GENERAL INFORMATION:
Location & Proposed Project Size:       Parcel Size: Approx. 0.56 acres
                                        Proposed Lot Size: Approx. 0.56 acres


Surrounding Land Use Districts: North: TOD
                                South: TOD
                                 East: TOD
                                 West: Flex

Figure 1: Existing Parcel




Figure 2: Existing Site Conditions




                                                          2
Figure 4: Applicant’s Conceptual Site Plan




 *SITE PLAN IS CONCEPTUAL – SUBJECT TO TECHNICAL REVIEW




                                                    3
Figure 5: ALTA Survey




                        4
Figure 6: Final Plat **Final Plat in attachments**




                                                     5
Figure 7: Building Elevations




                                6
PLANNING COMMISSION AUTHORITY:
17.11.030. Land use authority designations.
Pursuant to state law, the following administrative land use authority designations are made:

    A. Planning Commission. The planning commission is the land use authority on issues of: subdivision and subdivision
       plat approval.


GENERAL PLAN CONSIDERATIONS:
Land Use & Neighborhoods Goal 3, Page 28: Enhance urban and streetscape design in the city to support South Salt Lake’s
distinct image and enhance community pride.

        Analysis: The proposed project will improve a parcel that is currently vacant by adding a new building, landscaping,
        and a sidewalk.

Economic Development Goal 1, Strategy 5, Page 46: Encourage incremental development where appropriate to avoid
vacant and underutilized parcels.

        Analysis: The proposed project will improve a parcel that is currently vacant and will add a new business to the
        neighborhood.


ORDINANCE ANALYSIS
                  Ordinance                                       Finding                         Notes / Insufficiency
                                                  Title 17 – Land Use
   17.03.090 – Transit-Oriented Development District
    1. There is no minimum lot size for The proposed lot is 0.56 acres.
        commercial development in the TOD.
   17.10.140 – Subdivision Development Lot Standards
   A. All Final Plats shall result in the The proposed new lot will be compliant
       creation of compliant Lots and Building with South Salt Lake standards.
       sites.
   B. Frontage on public street                 The proposed development will front on
                                                300 West. Access is proposed to come
                                                from 300 West and Plymouth Avenue.
   C. Street right-of-way shall be separate The lot is separate from the Right of Way
       and distinct from subdivided lots.       and development is to take place within
                                                the property lines and applicable
                                                setbacks.
   D. Minimum area and dimensions shall The TOD district does not have a
       conform.                                 minimum acreage requirement for
                                                commercial development. The proposed
                                                lot is approximately 0.56 acres.
   E. Side boundary lines shall be at right All newly created side boundary lines are
       angles to the street.                    at right angles to all adjacent streets.
   F. Side boundary lines of lots shall be Not applicable
       radial to center of a Cul-de-Sac
   G. Corner lots for residential uses shall be Not applicable
       platted wider than interior lots
   H. Lots shall not be divided by City All existing and proposed parcels are
       boundary                                 located within South Salt Lake City.
   I. Double frontage residential lots          Not applicable
   J. Minimum          separation      between Not applicable
       structures
                                                            7
   K. Side lot lines shall be at right angles to   All newly created side boundary lines are
      street lines                                 at right angles to all adjacent streets.
   L. Dimensions of Corner Lots shall be large     The final site plan indicates sufficient size
      enough to allow for erection of              to allow for erection of buildings.
      Buildings
   M. Depth and width of properties shall be       Not applicable
      adequate to provide for off-street
      parking and loading facilities
   N. New Single-Family lots shall not front on    Not applicable
      an Arterial or Collector Street
   O. If Access from an Arterial or Collector      Not applicable
      Street is necessary for new adjoining
      lots, such lots shall be served by
      separate local street
   P. Driveways shall be designed and              There is ingress and egress provided
      arranged to avoid vehicles backing onto      from 300 West and Plymouth Avenue.
      Streets                                      Neither entrance will force vehicles to
                                                   back onto streets.
   Q. Lots shall be laid out to provide positive   Per the Engineering review, there is
      drainage away from all buildings.            positive drainage away from all buildings.

17.10.150 – Subdivision Layout Requirements
    A. Frontage on and Arrangement to The proposed lot has a dedication of 4.5
        Improved Roads                         feet along 300 West and 6.5 feet along
                                               Plymouth Avenue. Per Engineering,
                                               existing infrastructure will remain in
                                               place.
17.10.160 – Drainage and Storm Sewers
    A. Location. Upon recommendation of Not applicable per Engineering review.
        City Engineer, applicants may be
        required to carry away by pipe or open
        channel any spring or surface water
        that may exist either previously to or
        as a result of the subdivision.
    B. Adequate underground stormwater Per the engineering review, there is an
        systems shall be constructed and adequate underground stormwater
        maintained.                            system.
    C. Accommodation           of     Upstream Not applicable
        Drainage Areas.
    D. Adequate storm / flood water drainage Per the engineering review, there is
        will be provided to an approved adequate storm or flood water drainage.
        drainage watercourse or facility with
        capacity.
    E. Areas of poor drainage shall be Sufficient drainage is provided per
        remediated as applicable.              Engineering review.
    F. Flood plain areas shall be preserved Not Applicable
        upon recommendation of City
        Engineer when necessary for the
        health, safety, or welfare of the
        population of the area.
17.10.170 – Water Facilities
    A. Applicant shall extend public culinary There is currently adequate water supply
        water supply-system for the purpose provisions per SSL Engineering review.


                                                              8
       of providing an adequate water-supply
       to the Plat
    B. Applicant shall install adequate water      The site already has adequate water
       facilities including fire hydrants.         facilities including fire hydrants per the
                                                   SSL Fire Marshal.
    C. Fire flow shall be approved by the Fire     Per the South Salt Lake Fire Marshal’s
       Marshal.                                    office, a fire flow test was not needed for
                                                   this plat.
    D. Water main extensions shall meet the        Not applicable.
       City’s standards.
    E. A determination shall be made as to         Not applicable. There are no facilities at
       location or extent of facilities to be      this location to be maintained by South
       maintained by South Salt Lake City, if      Salt Lake City.
       any.
    F. Fire hydrants required for all plats.       The site already has adequate fire
                                                   hydrants per the SSL Fire Marshal’s
                                                   office.
17.10.180 – Sewer Facilities
    A. Applicant shall install sanctuary sewer     A will serve letter has been submitted
        facilities in a manner prescribed by the   from Mt. Olympus Improvement District.
        applicable sanitary sewer authority.
    B. Sanitary sewer facilities shall connect     A will serve letter has been submitted
        with the public sanitary sewer at sizes    from Mt. Olympus Improvement District.
        required by the sanitary sewer
        authority.
17.10.190 – Utilities
    A. Utility facilities shall be located                                                       This will be evaluated by the
        underground in new subdivisions.                                                         SSL City Engineer at the time
                                                                                                 of permit submission.
    B. Easements centered on Rear Lot Lines        All utilities already have easements.
        shall be provided for private and
        municipal utilities; such easements
        shall be at least 10’ wide.
17.10.200 – Sidewalks, Trails and Bike Paths
    A. Subdivision shall comply with the           The proposed lot has a dedication of 4.5
        applicable road profile.                   feet along 300 West and 6.5 feet along
                                                   Plymouth Avenue. Per Engineering,
.                                                  existing infrastructure will remain in
                                                   place.
    B. Trails, pedestrian paths, and bike paths    Not applicable.
        shall     relate    appropriately    to
        topography.
    C. Trails, pedestrian paths, and bike paths    Not applicable.
        shall be provided in accordance with
        the Trails Master Plan.
17.10.210 – Nonresidential Subdivisions
    A. Proposed industrial Parcels shall be        Not applicable.
        suitable in Area and dimensions to the
        types of industrial Development
        anticipated.
    B. Street       Rights-of-Way     subbase,     Not applicable.
        pavement width, and pavement depth
        shall be adequate to accommodate the
        type.

                                                              9
     C. Every effort shall be made to protect     The proposed development is not
        adjacent residential Areas from           adjacent to any residential areas.
        potential nuisance from a proposed
        commercial or industrial Subdivision.

STAFF RECOMMENDATION:
Based upon the information submitted in the application, supporting documentation, and analysis of the relevant code
sections and general plan goals, Staff recommends the Planning Commission move to approve, with conditions, the final
subdivision plat amendment and proposes the following findings of fact and conclusions of law and conditions of approval:

Findings of Fact:

    1.    The subject property, located at 3751 South 300 West, consists of one metes and bounds parcel.
    2.    The parcel is located in the TOD zone.
    3.    The proposed subdivision will legally plat one lot that will be approximately 0.56 acres in size.
    4.    The square footage of the Retail, Neighborhood use exceeds 50% of the total square footage of the proposed
          building.
    5.    The Retail, Neighborhood use is a permitted land use in the TOD zone.
    6.    The subject property is currently vacant.
    7.    The proposed lot will be served by access points on 300 West and Plymouth Avenue.

Conclusions of Law:

    1.    The proposed building contains multiple uses, however, because the square footage of the Retail, Neighborhood
          use exceeds 50% of the total square footage of the proposed building the proposed development falls into the
          Retail, Neighborhood land use category.
    2.    The subdivision, as specifically conditioned below, is consistent with the South Salt Lake City General Plan.
    3.    The subdivision, as specifically conditioned below is compatible in use, scale, and design with the allowed uses in
          the TOD zone.
    4.    The subdivision as specifically conditioned below, does not compromise the health, safety, or welfare of: Persons
          employed within or using the proposed development; Those residing or working in the vicinity of the proposed
          use or development; or Property or improvements in the vicinity of the proposed use or development.
    5.    The subdivision, as specifically conditioned below does not impose disproportionate burdens on the citizens of
          the city.
    6.    Staff has reviewed this subdivision for compliance with SSL Municipal Code Section “17.10.140 Subdivision
          Development Lot Standards” and found that this subdivision is compliant with this section, as outlined above.
    7.    Staff has reviewed this subdivision for compliance with SSL Municipal Code Section “17.10.150 Subdivision and
          Condominium Plat Layout Requirements” and found that this subdivision is compliant with this section, as
          outlined above.
    8.    Staff has reviewed this subdivision for compliance with SSL Municipal Code Sections 17.10.160, 17.10.170,
          17.10.180, 17.10.190, 17.10.200, and 17.10.210, and found that this subdivision is compliant with those sections,
          as outlined above.

Conditions of Approval:

    1.    The applicant will continue to work with City staff to make all technical corrections necessary prior to recording;
    2.    Prior to plat recordation and any additional development of the subsequent lot, the applicant must provide city
          staff the final plat mylar to include notarized signatures of owners’ consent to dedication; obtain signatures of
          all entities indicated on the subdivision plat attached hereto;
    3.    The applicant shall complete (or post an adequate improvement completion assurance), warrant and post
          required warranty assurance for all required landscaping and public infrastructure improvements;
    4.    The applicant shall ensure that all site improvements are installed consistent with the requirements of the South
          Salt Lake City Municipal Code;



                                                            10
    5.    The applicant shall dedicate an easement to the City of South Salt Lake for purposes of storm water management
          practices and ensure the plat includes language of the dedication of such easement, in a form as approved by the
          City Attorney’s Office;
   6.     The proposed building shall be constructed according to South Salt Lake commercial design standards;
   7.     All items of the staff report.

PLANNING COMMISSION OPTIONS:


    Option 1: Approval
    Move to approve the application by Ralph Nagasawa for a final plat application for the construction and operation of a
    flex building at 3751 S 300 W to consist of a showroom, warehouse, and office space.

    Option 2: Denial
    Move to deny the application by Ralph Nagasawa for a final plat application for the construction and operation of a flex
    building at 3751 S 300 W to consist of a showroom, warehouse, and office space, for the reasons stated on the record.

   Option 3: Continuance
   Move to table the decision on the application by Ralph Nagasawa for a final plat application for the construction and
   operation of a flex building at 3751 S 300 W to consist of a showroom, warehouse, and office space to a date certain to
   allow the Applicant and Staff time to respond to specific inquiries or concerns raised by the Planning Commission, or to
   allow the Planning Commission more time to consider the proposal.


Attachments:
    1.  ALTA Survey
    2.  Final Subdivision Plat




                                                            11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SURVEYOR'S CERTIFICATE
                       STREET MONUMENT
                          3424 S. 300 W. ST.
                       (FOUND BRASS CAP)
                                                                                                                                                                                               PLYMOUTH WAREHOUSE SUBDIVISION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I, BRIAN A. LINAM DO HEREBY CERTIFY THAT I AM A PROFESSIONAL LAND SURVEYOR, AND THAT I HOLD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LICENSE NO. 7240531, IN ACCORDANCE WITH TITLE 58, CHAPTER 22, OF THE PROFESSIONAL ENGINEERS AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LOCATED IN THE SOUTHEAST QUARTER OF SECTION 36,                                                                                                                                                                                                                             NORTH                                       LAND SURVEYORS ACT; I FURTHER CERTIFY THAT BY AUTHORITY OF THE OWNERS I HAVE COMPLETED A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TOWNSHIP 1 SOUTH, RANGE 1 WEST,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SURVEY OF THE PROPERTY DESCRIBED ON THIS SUBDIVISION PLAT IN ACCORDANCE WITH SECTION 17-23-17,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     HAVE VERIFIED ALL MEASUREMENTS, AND HAVE SUBDIVIDED SAID TRACT OF LAND INTO LOTS AND STREETS,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TOGETHER WITH EASEMENTS, HEREAFTER TO BE KNOWN AS PLYMOUTH WAREHOUSE SUBDIVISION AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          THAT THE SAME HAS BEEN CORRECTLY SURVEYED AN MONUMENTED ON THE GROUND AS SHOWN ON THIS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PLAT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         BOUNDARY DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     A TRACT OF LAND LOCATED IN THE SOUTHEAST QUARTER OF SECTION 36, TOWNSHIP 1 SOUTH, RANGE 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     WEST, SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN. SAID TRACT OF LAND BEING MORE PARTICULARLY DESCRIBED AS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GRAPHIC SCALE                                        FOLLOWS:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   20                0       10        20                       40
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BEGINNING AT POINT ON THE EASTERLY RIGHT OF WAY LINE OF 300 WEST STREET, SAID POINT BEING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SOUTH 89°54'30” EAST 341.88 FEET MORE OR LESS AND SOUTH 00°05'30” WEST 122.95 FEET MORE OR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ( IN FEET )                                LESS FROM THE CENTER OF SECTION 36, TOWNSHIP 1 SOUTH, RANGE 1 WEST, SALT LAKE BASE AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     MERIDIAN, SAID POINT BEING MORE PARTICULARLY DESCRIBED AS BEING NORTH 00°05'30” EAST 803.97
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1 inch = 20 ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     FEET ALONG THE MONUMENT LINE AND SOUTH 89°54'30” EAST 33.00 FEET AND NORTH 00°05'30” EAST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.43 FEET FROM THE STREET MONUMENT LOCATED AT 3900 SOUTH AND 300 WEST AND RUNNING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     THENCE NORTH 00°05'30” EAST 122.52 FEET ALONG SAID EASTERLY RIGHT OF WAY LINE TO A POINT ON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     THE SOUTHERLY RIGHT OF WAY LINE OF PLYMOUTH AVENUE; THENCE NORTH 89°54'53” EAST 198.28 FEET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ALONG SAID SOUTHERLY RIGHT OF WAY LINE; THENCE SOUTH 00°05'30" WEST 122.81 FEET; THENCE WEST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     198.28 FEET TO THE POINT OF BEGINNING.
                                                                                                                                                                                                           PLYMOUTH AVE.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               50.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CONTAINS 24,322 SQ. FT. OR 0.558 ACRES, MORE OR LESS.
      CENTER OF SECTION 36,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   N 89°54'53" E
      TOWNSHIP 1 SOUTH, RANGE 1 WEST,
                                                                                                                                                                                                           (PUBLIC ROAD)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1 LOT
      SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN,




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      25.0'
      (NOT FOUND)                                                                                                                                  AREA HEREBY DEDICATED TO
                                                                                                                                                         SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY
                                                                                                                                                               FOR PUBLIC USE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        BENCHMARK                                       A L LA ND
                     S 89°54'30" E 341.88' (TIE)                                                                                                    1,811 SQ FT OR 0.042 ACRES                            N 89°54'53" E 198.28'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4-7-23
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PROFESSI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ENGINEERING &




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         UR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           V EY OR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       7240531
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   6.50'
                             S 00°05'30" W 122.95' (TIE)                                                                                                                                                           N 89°54'53" E 193.78'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LAND SURVEYING                                  BRIAN A.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LINAM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     9138 SOUTH STATE STREET SUITE # 100




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SANDY, UTAH 84070 (801) 542-7192                   T E OF UT A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           5.0' P.U.E.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            www.benchmarkcivil.com
                                                                                                                                                    10.0' P.U.E.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DATE OF PREPARATION: APRIL 2023
                                                                                                N 00°05'30" E 122.52'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       S 00°05'30" W 122.81'
                                         NORTH 00°05'30" EAST 3490.52'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              77.11'
                                                                                                                        N 00°05'30" E 116.02'
                                                                          147.84'
                                            BASIS OF BEARINGS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LLC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       E S, 27
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    RIS -0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  RP -402
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OWNER'S DEDICATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              T E    6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LOT 1                                                                                                                             E EN 15-3                                                                                                                                                                                     KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS THAT, THE UNDERSIGNED OWNER(S) PLYMOUTH ON THIRD, LLC,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I     #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TH      L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    22,511 SQ FT                                                                                                                  MA ARCE                                                                                                                                                                                             A UTAH LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY, OF THE ABOVE DESCRIBED TRACT OF LAND TO BE HEREAFTER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.517 ACRES                                                                                                                     P                                                      STORM WATER NOTE                                                                                                                           KNOWN AS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         10.0' P.U.E.                                                                                                      OWNER HEREBY CONVEYS TO SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY AND ITS AGENTS A NON-EXCLUSIVE PERPETUAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PLYMOUTH WAREHOUSE SUBDIVISION
                                                   (PUBLIC ROAD)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3751 S. 300 W.                                                                                                                                                                           EASEMENT OVER, ON AND IN LOT 1 FOR THE PURPOSE OF ACCESS TO THE PRIVATE STORMWATER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MANAGEMENT SYSTEM(S) FOR THE MANAGEMENT, INSPECTION, MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR THEREOF.
                                                     300 WEST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DOES HEREBY CERTIFY TO HAVE CAUSED THIS PLAT TO BE PREPARED AND DOES HEREBY DEDICATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ROCKY MOUNTAIN NOTE:                                                                                                                       FOR THE PERPETUAL USE OF THE PUBLIC ALL PUBLIC ROADS AND OTHER AREAS SHOWN ON THIS PLAT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           UTILITIES SHALL HAVE THE RIGHT TO INSTALL, MAINTAIN AND OPERATE THEIR EQUIPMENT ABOVE AND                                                  AS INTENDED FOR PUBLIC USE. THE UNDERSIGNED OWNER(S) ALSO HEREBY CONVEYS TO ANY AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           BELOW GROUND AND ALL OTHER RELATED FACILITIES WITHIN THE PUBLIC UTILITY EASEMENTS IDENTIFIED                                               ALL PUBLIC UTILITY COMPANIES A PERPETUAL, NON-EXCLUSIVE EASEMENT OVER THE PUBLIC UTILITY
                                                                                                                                                                          10.0' P.U.E.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ON THIS PLAT MAP AS MAY BE NECESSARY OR DESIRABLE IN PROVIDING UTILITY SERVICES WITHIN AND                                                 EASEMENTS SHOWN ON THIS PLAT, THE SAME TO BE USED FOR THE INSTALLATION, MAINTENANCE,




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              39.21'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           WITHOUT THE LOTS IDENTIFIED HEREIN, INCLUDING THE RIGHT OF ACCESS TO SUCH FACILITIES AND THE                                               AND OPERATION OF UTILITY LINES AND FACILITIES. THE UNDERSIGNED OWNER(S) ALSO HEREBY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           RIGHT TO REQUIRE REMOVAL OF ANY OBSTRUCTIONS INCLUDING STRUCTURES, TREES AND VEGETATION                                                    CONVEYS ANY OTHER EASEMENTS AS SHOWN ON THIS PLAT TO THE PARTIES INDICATED AND FOR THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           THAT MAY BE PLACE WITHIN THE P.U.E. THE UTILITY MAY REQUIRE THE LOT OWNER TO REMOVE ALL                                                    PURPOSES SHOWN HEREON. IN WITNESS WHEREOF THE OWNER HAS HEREUNTO SET THIS _______ DAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           STRUCTURES WITHIN THE P.U.E. AT THE LOT OWNER'S EXPENSE, OR THE UTILITY MAY REMOVE SUCH                                                    OF ________ A.D., 20_____.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           STRUCTURES AT THE LOT OWNER'S EXPENSE. AT NO TIME MAY ANY PERMANENT STRUCTURES BE PLACED
                                                                                       P.O.B.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              WITHIN THE P.UE. OR ANY OTHER OBSTRUCTION WHICH INTERFERES WITH THE USE OF THE P.U.E. WITHOUT                                              PLYMOUTH ON THIRD, LLC
                                                                                                                                                                                          107.06'                                                             86.72'                                                                                                                                       THE PRIOR WRITTEN APPROVAL OF THE UTILITIES WITH FACILITIES IN THE P.U.E.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                WEST 198.28'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DOMINION ENERGY APPROVES THIS PLAT SOLELY FOR THE PURPOSE OF CONFIRMING THAT THE PLAT
                                                                                                                                                4.50'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CONTAINS PUBLIC UTILITY EASEMENTS. DOMINION ENERGY MAY REQUIRE OTHER EASEMENTS IN ORDER TO
                                                                                                                                          N 00°05'30" E 0.43'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SERVE THIS DEVELOPMENT. THIS APPROVAL DOES NOT CONSTITUTE ABROGATION OR WAIVER OF ANY OTHER
                                    S 89°54'30" E 33.00'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PRINT NAME:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EXISTING RIGHTS, OBLIGATIONS OR LIABILITIES PROVIDED BY LAW OR EQUITY. THIS APPROVAL DOES NOT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CONSTITUTE ACCEPTANCE, APPROVAL OR ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF ANY TERMS CONTAINED IN THE PLAT,                                                       TITLE:
                                                              66.0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       INCLUDING THOSE SET IN THE OWNER'S DEDICATION AND THE NOTES AND DOES NOT CONSTITUTE A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          GUARANTEE OF PARTICULAR TERMS OF NATURAL GAS SERVICE. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION PLEASE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CONTACT QUESTAR RIGHT-OF-WAY DEPARTMENT AT 1-800-366-8532.
                                                                                      33.0'                                                                                                                                                     LC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            E,L 6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AR 01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S QU -402-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   T     6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                WES 15-3                                                                                                                                                                                                   VICINITY MAP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             IRD L#
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TH RCE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PA                                                                            LEGEND                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LLC ACKNOWLEDGMENT
                                                                         803.97'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3620 S. ST.


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              }




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   300 W. ST.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       STATE OF UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SECTION CORNER, (NOT FOUND)                                                                                                                                                                                    S.S.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       County of Salt Lake




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                W. TEMPLE ST.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ON THE ______ DAY OF ____________ A.D., 2023, PERSONALLY APPEARED BEFORE ME
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  STREET MONUMENT                                                                                                                                                                     _________________________, WHOSE IDENTITY IS PERSONALLY KNOWN TO ME (OR PROVEN ON THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BASIS OF SATISFACTORY EVIDENCE) AND WHO, BY ME DULY SWORN/AFFIRMED, DID SAY THAT HE/SHE IS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BOUNDARY CORNER                                                                                                                                                                     A ______________________ OF PLYMOUTH ON THIRD, LLC, A UTAH LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY, AND




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              500 W. ST.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      THAT THE OWNER'S DEDICATION WAS SIGNED BY HIM/HER ON BEHALF OF SAID LLC, AND SAID
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (SET 5 8 REBAR AND CAP OR AS                                                                                      PLYMOUTH AVE.                                                     ____________________________, ACKNOWLEDGED TO ME THAT SAID LLC EXECUTED THE SAME.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NOTED ON PLAT) "STAMPED BENCHMARK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ENG."                                                                                                            SITE                                                               MY COMMISSION EXPIRES: __________________                COMMISSION NUMBER:_________________




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     INTERSTATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BOUNDARY LINE                                                                                                                                                                                                  (DATE)
                      STREET MONUMENT
                        3900 S. 300 W. ST.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ADJACENT PROPERTY                                                                                                                                                                             PRINT NAME                                         NOTARY PUBLIC RESIDING IN
                   (FOUND COPPER RIVET)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ______________ COUNTY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   STREET CENTER/MONUMENT LINE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              NORTH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5
                                                                                                                                                                                         NOTES:                                                                                                                                                                    EASEMENT                                                                                          3900 S. ST.
                                                                                                                                                                                         1. STATEMENT OF ACCURACY, MINIMUM LINEAR CLOSURE OF 1:20,000.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NTS

                                                                                                                                                                   SOUTH SALT LAKE PLANNING                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  JORDAN VALLEY WATER                                                MT. OLYMPUS IMPROVEMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DOMINION ENERGY                                              LUMEN                                                            SOUTH SALT LAKE FIRE MARSHAL
                                                                                                                                                                         COMMISSION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CONSERVANCY DISTRICT                                                       DISTRICT
DEVELOPER:
SUNI REAL ESTATE                                                                                                                                                    APPROVED AS TO THIS_____ DAY OF                              APPROVED THIS_____ DAY OF ___________,   APPROVED THIS_____ DAY OF ___________,                                                   APPROVED AS TO FORM THIS_____ DAY OF                    APPROVED THIS_____ DAY OF ___________,                               APPROVED THIS_____ DAY OF ___________,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PLYMOUTH WAREHOUSE SUBDIVISION
                                                                                                                                                                    ___________, A.D. 20____.                                    A.D. 20____.                             A.D. 20____.                                                                             ___________, A.D. 20____.                               A.D. 20____.                                                         A.D. 20____.                                                                   LOCATED IN THE SOUTHEAST QUARTER OF SECTION 36,
JOHN KUCERA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TOWNSHIP 1 SOUTH, RANGE 1 WEST,
JOHN@SUNIREALESTATE.COM                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH

                                                                                                                                                                       PLANNING COMMISSION APPROVAL                                          REPRESENTATIVE                                       REPRESENTATIVE                                                  SOUTH SALT LAKE FIRE MARSHAL                      DATE                      REPRESENTATIVE                                               REPRESENTATIVE                                                                                                                  SHEET 1 OF 1
                                                                                                                                                                    ROCKY MOUNTAIN POWER                                       SALT LAKE COUNTY                           SOUTH SALT LAKE COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT                                                                  SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY ENGINEER                                APPROVAL AS TO FORM                                    SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY APPROVAL                                                SALT LAKE COUNTY RECORDER
                                                                                      BENCHMARK                                                                                                                                HEALTH DEPARTMENT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             RECORDED #_____________________
                                                                                                                                                                   APPROVED THIS_____ DAY OF ___________,                                                                           APPROVED AS TO FORM THIS __________                                                             APPROVED AS TO FORM THIS __________                       APPROVED AS TO FORM THIS_____                                       APPROVED AS TO FORM THIS_____
                                                                                     ENGINEERING &                                                                 A.D. 20____.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         APPROVED THIS____________________DAY                                                                                                                                                                                 DAY OF___________, A.D., 20__                                       DAY OF___________, A.D., 20__                              STATE OF UTAH, COUNTY OF SALT LAKE, RECORDED AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DAY OF________, A.D. 20_____,                                                                   DAY OF________, A.D. 20_____,
                                                                                    LAND SURVEYING                                                                                                                       OF_______________________A.D., 20___                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                FILED AT THE REQUEST OF________________________
                                                                              9138 SOUTH STATE STREET SUITE # 100                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DATE______________TIME_________BOOK____PAGE____
                                                                                 SANDY, UTAH 84070 (801) 542-7192
                                                                                     www.benchmarkcivil.com                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ATTEST: RECORDER                                              FEE $________
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ______________            ________________________
                                                                                                                                                                                         REPRESENTATIVE                  SALT LAKE COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT                                                                                                                          SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY ENGINEER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR                                                                                                                      SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY ATTORNEY                                    SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY. MAYOR                                    DATE                DEPUTY SALT LAKE COUNTY RECORDER

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2202049SP.dwg
                                    PLANNING COMMISSION STAFF REPORT
Meeting Date:           July 13, 2023
Request:                A petition to the Planning Commission to forward a positive recommendation to the South Salt
                        Lake City Council for all or only portions of the ordinance amending multiple sections 17.03
                        and 17.07 of Title 17 of the South Salt Lake City Municipal Code to correct technical errors, and
                        to amend certain townhome development and design standards.
Applicants:             South Salt Lake City
Type of item:           Legislative – Code Amendment

 RECOMMENDATIONS:
 Staff recommends the Planning Commission forward a recommendation of approval to the City Council for all or
 only portions of the ordinance amending sections 17.03 and 17.07 of Title 17 of the South Salt Lake City Municipal
 Code (“Title 17”) to correct technical errors, and to amend certain townhome development and design standards.

 SYNOPSIS:
 City staff has found multiple technical errors within sections 17.03 and 17.07 of Title 17 that need to be amended to
 increase clarity and correct inconsistencies within the ordinance. City staff has also identified certain townhome
 development and design standards that City staff is proposing be amended to simplify the townhome development
 code and make the land use and permitting process more user-friendly.

 The Planning Commission is the recommending body for amendments to land use ordinances and the City Council
 is the land use authority for amendments to land use ordinances.

 Staff has provided a summary of proposed amendments below. For the full amendment to Title 17, please see the
 attachments provided herein that include a full-redlined ordinance.
 CODE SECTIONS                        HIGHLIGHT OF CHANGES
 Amending Title 17.03                 o General Clean Up:
 Land-Use Districts and Matrix           17.03.260
                                            Fix typos throughout section.
                                            Change minimum width requirements to require 128 feet of
                                               frontage on a Public street while allowing a narrower width along a
                                               second Public street rather than requiring that width along the
                                               length of the property. This proposal will better allow for irregularly
                                               shaped lots to accommodate townhomes.
 Amending Title 17.07                 o General Clean Up:
 Design Standards                        17.07.080
                                            Fix typos throughout section.
                                            Change the Townhome Building form to change the minimum
                                               requirement for dwelling units per building from 3 to 2. Restrict the
                                               amount of buildings with 2 units to only two per development. This
                                               proposal will allow developers more flexibility while also
                                               encouraging the level of density we hope to gain from townhome
                                               developments.



                                                           1
                                              Reduce the window requirement for facades not facing a Public
                                               Street or Internal Primary Access Road from 40% to 25%. This will
                                               allow developers more flexibility in design.
                                              Lower requirement for vehicular access from a Secondary Internal
                                               Access Road from 90% to 85%. This will allow greater flexibility for
                                               developers.

STAFF RECOMMENDATION:

Staff recommends the Planning Commission forward a recommendation of approval to the City Council for all or only
portions of the ordinance amending sections 17.03 and 17.07 of Title 17 of the South Salt Lake City Municipal Code to
correct technical errors, and to amend certain townhome development and design standards.
 PLANNING COMMISSION AUTHORITY:

17.11.010. Establishment and Duties of Planning Commission.

    K. Responsibilities.

        A. The Planning Commission makes recommendations to the City Council for:
               a. The general plan and amendments to the general plan;
               b. The Land Use Map, and amendments to the Land Use Map;
               c. Amendments to land use ordinances;
               d. Proposed Application processes and the delegation of power under the land use ordinance.

PLANNING COMMISSION REVIEW:

Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-502. Preparation and adoption of land use regulation states:
       1. A planning commission shall:
               a. provide notice as required by Subsection 10-9a-205(1)(a) and, if applicable, Subsection 10-9a-
               205(4);
               b. hold a public hearing on a proposed land use regulation;
               c. if applicable, consider each written objection filed in accordance with Subsection 10-9a-
               205(4) prior to the public hearing; and
               d.       i. review and recommend to the legislative body a proposed land use regulation that
                        represents the planning commission's recommendation for regulating the use and
                        development of land within all or any part of the area of the municipality; and
                        ii. forward to the legislative body all objections filed in accordance with Subsection 10-9a-
                        205(4).

PLANNING COMMISSION OPTIONS:

Option 1: Approval

    Move to forward a recommendation of approval of all or only portions to the City Council for an ordinance
    amending sections 17.03 and 17.07 of Title 17 of the South Salt Lake City Municipal Code to correct technical errors,
    and to amend certain townhome development and design standards.

Option 2: Recommendation of Denial

    Move to forward a recommendation of all or only portions to the City Council to deny an ordinance amending
    sections 17.03 and 17.07 of Title 17 of the South Salt Lake City Municipal Code to correct technical errors, and to
    amend certain townhome development and design standards.

Option 3: Continuance
                                                           2
   Move to table the recommendation to the City Council for an ordinance amending sections 17.03 and 17.07 of Title
   17 of the South Salt Lake City Municipal Code to correct technical errors, and to amend certain townhome
   development and design standards to a date certain to allow the Applicants and Staff time to respond to specific
   inquires or concerns raised by the Planning Commission, or to allow the Planning Commission more time to
   consider the proposal.



Attachments:

   1. Redlined Ordinance Amendment




                                                        3
17.03.260 Townhome Overlay District.
A.    Purpose. The Townhome Overlay District provides Development standards to facilitate the Development of
      well-designed Townhome communities.
B.    Uses. No Building, Structure, Site, or land shall be used or Developed except in accordance with the adopted
      Land Use Matrix as found in this Chapter.
C.    Standards. Standards for Townhome Development within the district are as follows:
      1.    Minimum Area. The minimum area for Townhome Project Development is one (1) contiguous acre.
      2.    Minimum Width. The minimum width of any Lot or Parcel for a Townhome Project Development is 128
            feet at all points along the length of the property. along one Public Street. If a Townhome Project
            Development has access from a second Public Street, the width of the frontage on that Street shall be
            sufficient to meet all applicable South Salt Lake road profile requirements.
      3.    Maximum Building Height. The maximum Building Height for any Structure is based on the Traditional 2
            Story Townhome Building Form, Traditional 3 Story Townhome Building Form, Live/Work Townhome
            Building Form, and Urban Style Townhome Building Form, as applicable, and more completely detailed
            in Chapter 17.07.
      4.    Required Setbacks/Build-To Standards are detailed in Chapter 17.07.
      5.    The minimum width of each Dwelling Unit and each commercial storefront, as applicable, within the
            District is 22 feet.
      6.    Each Townhome Development shall be subdivided into individual lots for each Dwelling Unit or into
            individual condominium units for each Dwelling Unit, Commercial Unit, Common Area, and Limited
            Common Area.
      7.    Each rezone to the Townhome Overlay District shall be preceded by an executed Development
            Agreement among the Applicant, Property Owner, Developer, and the City detailing the specific
            Applicant, Property Owner, and Developer commitments to the City including project design,
            community management that respects important attributes of home ownership, and Development.
( Ord. No. 2021-06 , § XI, 5-26-2021; Ord. No. 2022-16 , § 1(Exh. A), 9-14-2022)

Editor's note(s)—Ord. No 2022-16 , § 1(Exh. A), adopted September 14, 2022, repealed former § 17.03.260, which
      pertianed pertained to temporary transitional beneficial use (TTBU) overlay district and derived from Ord.
      No. 2020-09, § II, adopted August 12, 2020. Subsequently, § 17.03.270 was rebumbered renumbered as §
      17.03.060.




17.07.080 Townhome building forms/development.
      There are four allowed Townhome Building forms. Each Townhome Building form allows for no less than
three (3) two (2) to and no more than eight (8) attached Dwelling Units (or commercial units in the Urban Style
Townhome Building Form) to be located side by side, in a single Building. Townhome Developments are limited to
two (2) buildings containing only two (2) units. In addition to the design standards contained in 17.07.050 and
17.07.060, the following design standards apply to all Townhome Buildings.
A.    Frontage and Orientation.

                                                                                       Created: 2023-03-08 13:49:27 [EST]
(Supp. No. 60)

                                                     Page 1 of 7
      1.    Single-Building Developments. Single-Building Townhome Developments shall front on a Street.
      2.    Multi-Building Developments.
            a.   Traditional multi-Building Townhome Developments shall be oriented so that the Primary Façade
                 of each Building faces toward the following, listed in priority order:
                  i.     Public Street;
                  ii.    primary internal Street Internal Primary Access Road; and
                  iii.   park or other internal Common Open Space.
            b.   Urban Style & Live/Work Townhome Buildings shall be oriented so the commercial units and the
                 upper floors of Dwelling Units face toward the following, listed in priority order (with Dwelling
                 Units' primary entrance and vehicular access facing an internal Street):
                  i.     pPublic Street;
                  ii.    primary internal Street; and
                  iii.   park or other internal Common Open Space.
B.    Windows and Doors.
      1.    Windows are required on at least 40% of each Façade of all Buildings. any façade facing a Public Street
            or Internal Primary Access Road. Any façade facing a secondary internal Street or neighboring Parcel or
            Lot shall have at least 25% windows.
      2.    Each Façade of every Building shall display the same level of architectural detail and transparency as
            the Primary Façade.
      3.    Windows on the Primary Façade shall have a minimum transparency of 70%.
      4.    All windows on each Façade of every Building shall incorporate at least two (2) of the following
            features:
            a.   mullions and/or transoms;
            b.   trim or molding at least four inches (4") in width;
            c.   canopies, shutters, or awnings proportional to window size; or
            d.   recessed insets from the Primary Façade of at least two inches (2").




                                                                                         Created: 2023-03-08 13:49:27 [EST]
(Supp. No. 60)

                                                        Page 2 of 7
C.    Building Materials.
      1.    Primary Materials. All Buildings shall use one of the following materials on at least 80% of each Façade:
            a.    Brick;
            b.    wood clapboard;
            c.    wood board and batten;
            d.    stone; or
            e.    Hardie Board or similar fiber cement siding.
      2.    Secondary Materials. No Building shall use the following materials on more than 20% of any Façade:
            a.    stucco;
            b.    corrugated metal siding;
            c.    split-faced masonry block;
            d.    exposed smooth-finish concrete block;
            e.    architectural metal panels;
            f.    wood; or
            g.    EIFS.
      3.    Prohibited Materials. No Building shall use vinyl or aluminum siding on any Façade.
      4.    Roofs. All roofs shall be clad in asphalt shingles, standing seam metal, or a material of equivalent
            quality and durability.
      5.    Arrangement.
            a.    Where two or more materials are proposed to be combined on a Façade, the heavier and more
                  massive material shall be located below the lighter material.
            b.    All material changes shall occur along a horizontal line or where two forms meet; material
                  changes may occur as accents around windows, doors, cornices, at corners, or as a repetitive
                  pattern.
            c.    All materials shall wrap around each Building Façade and shall reflect the same level of
                  architectural detailing on all four Facades of the Building.
            d.    Primary Façade materials and/or colors shall not change within two feet (2') of Building corners
                  and shall continue along any Façade visible from a Street or pedestrian Right-of-Way. Materials
                  may change where side or rear wings meet the main body of a Building. Primary Façade materials
                  used on Buildings on Corner Lots shall extend the full length of the sides visible from a Street or
                  pedestrian Right-of-Way.
D.    Fencing.
      1.    Fences in Front Yards shall not exceed four feet (4') in height.
      2.    Fences in Corner Side Yards shall not exceed six feet (6') in height.
      3.    Fences in Rear Yards shall not exceed six feet (6') in height.
      4.    Fences may extend to the back of sidewalks, where permitted.
      5.    A straight classic vinyl picket fence is allowed:


                                                                                          Created: 2023-03-08 13:49:27 [EST]
(Supp. No. 60)

                                                       Page 3 of 7
      6.    All other Vinyl or Chain link fences are prohibited.
      7.    Developments that abut single-family developments shall have a six-foot (6') CMU (or similar material)
            wall for the length of the Townhome Development perimeter that abuts a single-family development,
            (excluding that length of the single-family Development perimeter that is required for vehicular and
            pedestrian access).
E.    Façade Offsets. For each Dwelling Unit, the Building Façade shall incorporate:
      1.    a horizontal and vertical wall offset in the form of a projection or recess, every 22 feet (or the Unit
            width if the Unit exceeds the minimum Townhome Unit width) with a minimum depth of six feet (6')
            and a minimum width of six feet (6'); and
      2.    at least two of the following:
            a.    a change in roofline;
            b.    an offset in the Primary Façade of the Dwelling Unit of at least two feet (2'); or
            c.    variation in the location and proportion of front Porches.
F.    Building Height. The Building Height for each Townhome Building form is measured from Grade to the peak
      of the roof or, for flat-roofed Buildings, from Grade to the top of the roof parapet. The maximum Building
      Height for each Townhome sub-form is as follows:
      1.    Urban Style Townhome Building form is 40 feet.
      2.    Live/Work Townhome Building form is 40 feet.
      3.    Traditional 2 Story Townhome Building form is 35 feet.
      4.    Traditional 3 Story Townhome Building form is 40 feet.
G.    Roofs and Overhangs. Roofs and overhangs shall comply with the following standards:
      1.    Pitched roofs covering the main body of the Building shall have a minimum 6:12 pitch.
      2.    Shed roofs shall maintain a minimum pitch of 2:12 and all other roofs covering the main body shall
            maintain a minimum roof pitch of 6:12.
      3.    Overhanging eaves may expose rafters. Flush eaves shall be finished with profiled molding or gutters.
      4.    Flat Roofs.
            a.    All flat roofs shall include:
                  I.      a minimum two-foot (2') parapet wall; and
                  II.     at least one significant roofline height variation along the parapet.
            b.    All flat roofs shall also include at least two (2) of the following:


                                                                                            Created: 2023-03-08 13:49:27 [EST]
(Supp. No. 60)

                                                        Page 4 of 7
                  I.     gables, shed roofs, or pitched roof elements covering at least 50% of the length of the
                         Primary Façade;
                  II.    a Porch, portico, or colonnade located along the Primary Façade of the Building,
                         emphasizing the front door; or
                  III.   additional two-foot (2') projections or recesses in the Façade plane every 20 feet; or
                               IV.     outdoor living room amenities developed on at least 50% of the surface area of
                                       each unit.
H.    Porches. Each Unit shall have a covered, weather-protected Porch that is the prominent Architectural
      Element of its primary entrance Façade, and is least six feet (6') deep
I.    Solar Energy Systems. All Solar Energy Systems shall meet all design review, Screening, and visibility
      requirements found elsewhere in this Chapter.
J.    Architectural Variability.
      1.    Developments with more than three (3) Buildings shall vary the Design of each Building to enhance the
            architectural appeal of the Project.
      2.    Mirror images of the same Primary Façade do not count toward the required variation of Façades.
K.    Façades.
      1.    All Dwelling Units shall include at least one primary entrance on the Primary Façade of the Townhome
            Building. Individual Dwelling Units may have a secondary entrance on the Side or Rear Façade. If the
            primary entrance of each Commercial unit is on the Primary Façade of an Urban Style Townhome
            Building the primary entrance of each residential unit within that Building may be located on the Side
            or Rear Façade of the Building.
      2.    All details on a single Building, including roof forms, siding materials, windows, doors, and trim shall
            use a consistent architectural style.
      3.    All Façades of any Building in a multi-Building Development shall use the same materials, Architectural
            Elements, and detailing.
      4.    All Townhome buildings with Live/Work Units, or with ground floor Commercial uses shall comply with
            the Design Standards for Urban Style Buildings detailed in this Chapter.
L.    Garages. At a minimum, all Buildings shall include a two-car garage serving each Dwelling Unit.
      1.    No Garage entrance shall be located on the Primary Façade of the Building.
      2.    All garages doors must accommodate 2 cars. parked side by side in the garage. No Tandem parking is
            allowed.
      3.    All garages must contain at least three (3) of the following design features:
            a.    garage doors that include windows and are painted to match the main or accent color of the
                  Dwelling;
            b.    ornamental light fixtures flanking the doors;
            c.    arbor or trellis;
            d.    dormers;
            e.    eaves with exposed rafters with a minimum six-inch (6") projection from the front plane; or
            f.    roof line changes.


                                                                                            Created: 2023-03-08 13:49:27 [EST]
(Supp. No. 60)

                                                        Page 5 of 7
      4.    Carports are prohibited.
M.    Fire Access.
      1.    All Buildings adjacent to a Townhome Internal Primary Access Road must be separated from one
            another by at least 45 feet along every point of any Building wall, along the entire radius of any curve in
            the Townhome Internal Street Primary Access Road, from Grade to the heavens.
      2.    No Secondary Internal Access Road may exceed 150 feet in length if it does not have two points of
            ingress and egress, fully accessible by fire apparatus, with buildings separated by at least 45 feet, along
            any point of any Building wall, along the radius of any curve in the Secondary Internal Access Road.
N.    Access and Off-Street Parking Areas
      1.    90% 85% of all Dwelling Units shall be designed to provide vehicular access from a Secondary Internal
            Access Road.
      2.    Driveway access design shall conform to Utah APWA Plan 225 (Dec. 2009 ed.).
      3.    No off-Street Parking Area shall be located between a Building and the Street or road it fronts.
      4.    No on-Street parking is allowed.
O.    Usable Open Space. All Buildings shall include Usable Open Space equal to at least 20% of the Development
      site and shall include a programmed and landscaped area of at least 25% of the required Usable Open Space
      that is centrally located within the Project, abuts an Internal Primary Access Road, and is configured in a
      shape that is roughly equal in length and width.
P.    Meter and Equipment Placement.
      1.    Wall-mounted and ground-based meters, HVAC, and utility equipment serving any Building shall:
            a.       be fully screened from view or located to the sides or rear of the Building they serve;
            b.       be placed in close proximity to one another; and
            c.       shall not be located on any Façade on which a Unit's primary entrance is located.
      2.    All roof-mounted vents, pipes, Antennae, satellite dishes, and other roof penetrations and equipment,
            except chimneys, shall be fully screened from view and shall be painted the same color as the roof.
Q.    Circulation.
      1.    Each Townhome Development shall include concrete sidewalks, at least five (5) feet in width, which
            connects each Dwelling Unit to each Townhome Internal Street, right-of-way, commonly owned
            amenity, and waste container.
      2.    Each Townhome Internal Primary Access Road and Secondary Internal Access Road shall be painted
            with crosswalks in a manner and in locations determined by the City Engineer.
      3.    Each Internal Primary Access Road shall connect one Public Street to another.
R.    Accessory Structures. Accessory Structures shall be constructed with the same architectural style and
      roofline and with similar materials as the Primary Building.




                                                                                             Created: 2023-03-08 13:49:27 [EST]
(Supp. No. 60)

                                                         Page 6 of 7
      1.    Building Requirements.
            a.    Unoccupied: The following standards apply to Accessory Structures that will not be occupied:
                  i.     shall not exceed one Story and shall total no more than 700 square feet;
                  ii.    shall be of similar architectural style, be clad in similar materials, and shall be a similar color
                         as the Primary Buildings;
                  iii.   shall only be accessed at Grade;
                  iv.    shall not be connected to sewer service. All other utilities for Accessory Structures shall be
                         accessed from a Primary Building;
                  v.     shall not exceed 20 feet in height; and
                  vi.    carports are prohibited.
            b.    Occupied: Accessory Structures that will be occupied shall follow the same design standards as
                  the Primary Buildings within the Project and shall be constructed in a central location within the
                  Project
      2.    Mailbox Pavilion. Each project shall incorporate a mailbox pavilion that is centrally located, safely
            accessed, and designed to complement the architecture of the Project. The location of the mailbox
            pavilion shall be marked on each project's site plan and Plat.
      3.    Setbacks.
            a.    Accessory Structures shall be separated from other Buildings by at least ten feet (10').
            b.    Accessory Structures shall be located at least two feet (2') from any Property Line.
(Ord. No. 2020-02, § IV(Exh. C), 1-8-2020; Ord. No. 2021-06 , § XVIII, 5-26-2021; Ord. No. 2022-08 , § I(Exh. A), 4-
13-2022; Ord. No. 2022-16 , § 1(Exh. A), 9-14-2022)




                                                                                              Created: 2023-03-08 13:49:27 [EST]
(Supp. No. 60)

                                                        Page 7 of 7
