                                                               AGENDA
                                                   PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
                                                       Thursday, March 16, 2023
                                                        City Council Chambers
                                                      220 E. Morris Ave, 2nd Floor


                   PLANNING COMMISSION WORK MEETING AT 5:30 P.M.

                       1. Planning Commission Training
                       2. Townhome Overlay Discussion

 JONATHAN          PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING AT 7:00 P.M.
WEIDENHAMER
                   Pledge of Allegiance:  Stacey Holsher
COMMUNITY &        Approve Agenda: George Pechmann
 ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT        NEW BUSINESS
  DIRECTOR
                   1. PUBLIC HEARING
                      S-23-001                 A petition for a final subdivision plat amendment to
                                     consolidate one existing parcel and one condominium plat
                             consisting of fifty-seven units into one lot.
                                               ACTION ITEM
                     Applicant:                Elyas Raigne
                     Address:                  3423 South Main Street


                   CONTINUING BUSINESS

                                              None at this time


                   PLANNING COMMISSION BUSINESS

                                              Approval of the February 16, 2023 Planning Commission
                   Minutes
                                              ACTION ITEM

                                              Discussion and Adoption of the revised Bylaws
                                              ACTION ITEM

                   STAFF BUSINESS – INFORMATION ITEMS

CHERIE WOOD                                   None at this time
    MAYOR

220 E MORRIS AVE
    SUITE 200
SOUTH SALT LAKE
      UTAH
      84115
 O 801.483.6000
 F 801.483.6001     IN COMPLIANCE WITH THE AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT, INDIVIDUALS NEEDING AUXILIARY COMMUNICATIVE
                    AIDS OR OTHER SERVICES FOR THIS MEETING SHOULD CONTACT ELIZA UNGRICHT, (801) 483-6013, GIVING AT LEAST
    SSLC.GOV
                                                              24 HOURS NOTICE.
MAYOR@SSLC.GOV
                              SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                    BYLAWS & RULES OF PROCEDURE


I.          INTRODUCTION.

         These bylaws are designed and adopted to provide guidance and direction for the South Salt
Lake Planning Commission (“Commission”) in the performance of their duties. The Planning
Commission shall be governed by the provisions of all applicable State Statutes, City Ordinances, as
well as these bylaws.

II.         COMMISSION MEMBERSHIP.

      A. Members. The Commission is comprised of seven members (“member”) and two alternate
         members (“alternate”). All members and alternates shall be appointed by the Mayor, subject to
         the approval of the City Council. All members shall be addressed as “Commissioner”.

      B. Alternates. Alternates may act in the place of any absent member at any meeting of the
         Commission. Members are responsible for coordinating to have an alternate act in their place and
         shall notify the Community Development Department of the circumstance.

      C. Terms. Commission members are appointed for a period of four (4) years, with terms staggered
         to allow for continuity on the Commission.

      D. Resignation/Removal of Commissioners. All resignations must be in writing. Commissioners
         may be removed for cause.

      E. Quorum. Four (4) members shall constitute a Quorum to conduct business. All actions taken
         shall be by majority vote.

      F. Attendance. Attendance of members at regularly scheduled meetings may be enforced by the
         Chairperson of the Commission. Any member desiring to be excused shall notify Staff and
         coordinate to have an alternate act in their place.

      G. Clerk. The Community Development Department shall provide a person to act as Clerk of the
         Commission.

      H. Staff. The Community Development Department shall act as Staff for the Commission and shall
         provide staff reviews or reports, administer zoning ordinances, provide drafts of ordinances or
         master plans for consideration coordinate and provide training for the Commission, and process
         all applications required by city ordinances.

      I.   Member Responsibilities. Each member shall be responsible to:

           1. Read and study the agenda, staff reports, and all attached documents prepared by Staff so that
              they are fully informed about each application prior to the scheduled Commission meeting.
           2. Act in a courteous and respectful manner towards other members, Staff, applicants, and the
              public during all meetings.
           3. Attend Commission meetings and arrive on time.
           4. Follow the Rules of Order and Procedure as outlined in Section V.


                                                       1
       J. Training. Commissioners shall obtain training as required by Utah Code. A newly appointed
          member may not participate in a public meeting as an appointed member until the member
          completes the training as required by Utah Code. Failure to comply with the training
          requirements may result in removal from the Commission.

   K. Compensation. Members shall serve without pay, except for reasonable and legitimate expenses
      as approved by the City Council.

III.       POWERS AND DUTIES OF COMMISSION.

   A. Commission Member's Duties. The Planning Commission shall:
      1. Prepare and recommend a general plan and amendments to the general plan to the legislative
         body.
      2. Recommend zoning ordinances and maps, and amendments to zoning ordinances and maps,
         to the legislative body.
      3. Administer provisions of the zoning and development ordinances, where specifically
         provided for in those ordinances.
      4. Recommend subdivision and/or development regulations and amendments to those
         regulations to the legislative body.
      5. Recommend action or take action on development applications.
      6. Advise the legislative body on matters as the legislative body directs.
      7. Hear or decide any matters that the legislative body designates, including the approval or
         denial of, conditional use permits and subdivision plat approvals and amendments to
         subdivision plats.
      8. Exercise any other powers that are necessary to enable it to perform its function, or are
         delegated to it by the legislative body.

   B. Chairperson. The members shall elect a Chairperson from its members at the first regularly
      scheduled meeting of the Commission each year. The Chairperson shall preside at all meetings of
      the Commission. The Chairperson shall vote but shall not make or second motions. The
      Chairperson shall maintain order at all meetings.

   C. Vice-Chairperson. The members shall elect a Vice-Chairperson from its members at the first
      regularly scheduled meeting of the Commission each year. In the temporary absence or disability
      of the Chairperson, the Vice-Chairperson shall preside at the meetings in the Chair’s absence and
      perform the role and responsibilities of the Chair. In the event of the resignation or removal of the
      Chairperson, the Vice-Chairperson shall serve the remainder of the term as Chairperson and the
      Commission shall elect a new Vice-Chairperson to serve the remainder of the term.

   D. Election of Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson. At the first regularly scheduled meeting of the
      year or in the event of the resignation or removal of the Chairperson or Vice-Chairperson the next
      practicable meeting thereafter, a new Chairperson and Vice-Person shall be elected by receiving a
      nomination from a Commission member and by receiving the majority of the roll call vote of the
      Commission members.

   E. Chairperson and Vice-Person's Absence. During the temporary absence or disability of the
      Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson, the Commission member with the most seniority shall
      perform the role and responsibilities of the Chair.

   F. Conflict of Interest. Members of the Commission who feel they or any other member of the
      Commission have an actual, apparent, or reasonably foreseeable conflict of interest on any matter

                                                    2
      that is on the Commission agenda shall explain the apparent conflict to the Commission. If there
      is a conflict of interest, as determined by the Commission, that person shall not participate in the
      discussion and voting of that matter, nor attempt to use his/her influence with other
      Commissioners. An alternate may sit in place of the member stepping down but the member may
      resume the seat for other items on the agenda.

  G. Use of Power. A Commissioner shall not use the power as Commissioner to seek or obtain a
     special advantage that is not in the public interest nor any special advantage that is not a matter of
     public knowledge.


IV.    MEETINGS/AGENDA

  A. Schedule. At a regular meeting near the end of each year, the Commission shall determine the
     schedule of regular monthly meetings for the following year. The schedule of meetings shall be
     posted at City Hall and Commission members provided with a copy. The Commission may
     change this schedule provided that such change is posted and members provided with a copy, as
     required by Utah Code. The Commission is anticipated to meet twice monthly.

  B. Regular Meetings. Meeting locations shall be publicly noticed and held each month. Annual
     notice of meeting dates shall be noticed as required by Utah Code. In addition, dates and times of
     the meetings shall be posted as required by Utah Code.

  C. Field Trips. The Commission may, at their discretion, schedule field trips for the purpose of
     investigating certain matters. Field trips shall be for the purpose of gathering information, not
     discussing decisions and conducting business.

  D. Special Meetings. Special meetings may be called by the Chairperson, Staff, or a majority of the
     Commission members at any time. Absent urgency, Commission members must be notified at
     least seventy-two (72) hours in advance by telephone or written notice before the meeting is held
     and public notice is given as required by Utah Code. If the meeting is of an urgent nature,
     Commission members must be notified at least twenty-four (24) hours in advance by telephone or
     written notice. Other special meetings, including work meetings, may be called by the
     Commission, the Chair, the Mayor, or Staff. The Commission must be given at least one week of
     advance notice of these meetings.

  E. Meeting Cancellation. Notice of the cancellation of a meeting shall be posted as required by Utah
     Code. If a meeting is rescheduled, the new meeting time, date and location shall be posted as
     required by Utah Code.

  F. Agenda. Except for special meetings and emergency meetings, the agenda for the Commission
     meetings will be completed by the Friday preceding the meeting. New requests for items on the
     agenda must be presented to Staff sufficiently in advance of the scheduled meeting for review
     and notification (as determined by staff). Any materials for the Planning Commission, pertaining
     to the agenda items, must be presented to the Commissioners no later than the Monday preceding
     the meeting, or for special or emergency meetings, as far in advance as practical. The agenda is to
     be set by Staff based on the items to be considered with the following as a general guide:

              1.       Moment of reflection/Pledge of Allegiance
              2.       Approve Agenda
              3.       Discussion Calendar

                                                   3
               4.      Items from Staff
               5.      New Business (or items being placed before the Commission for the first time)
               6.      Continuing Business (or items requiring follow-up and/or action by the
                       Commission)
               7.      Commission Business
               8.      Items from Staff
               9.      Adjournment

V.      RULES OF ORDER AND PROCEDURE

     A. Rules of Order. Except as specified herein, the Commission shall follow the current edition of
        Robert's Rules of Order-Simplified in all meetings. All meetings shall adhere to the Utah Open
        Meetings Act, and the Government Records Access Management Act.

     B. Order of Business. The order of the business at the regular meetings shall follow the noticed
        agenda. The Chair, with the consent of the Commission, by majority vote, or upon consideration
        of Staff or the applicant(s), may consider matters out of the agenda order.

     C. Decision Items. All decision items on the agenda shall be approved, denied, or continued to the
        next regularly scheduled or otherwise specified meeting for action by the Commission. All
        decision items are subject to the following procedures:

           1. Motion. A matter for decision shall be placed before the Commission by motion made by
              any member present at the meeting. The Chair may not make motions before the
              Commission, except in the absence of a response from other members to an invitation by
              the Chair that a motion on a pending matter would be in order. Each motion must be
              seconded. Any member may second a motion. Alternates may not make any motions or
              second any motions, unless serving as an acting Member of the Commission at the
              meeting due to the absence of a regular member.

           2. Voting. Following a seconded motion, the Chair may call upon each member (or an
              alternate voting in place of a member abstaining from voting due to a conflict of interest)
              to verbally pronounce the member’s vote as an “aye” or “yes” or “nay” or “no”. Those
              Commission members that are present at the meeting may vote. A vote by roll call may
              be requested by a member or the Chairperson.

           3. Majority. A majority vote by the present members in favor of a motion shall carry the
              motion. No member shall be permitted to change his/her vote after the decision is
              announced by the Chairperson.

           4. Tie Vote. In the event of a tie vote, the motion fails.

           5. Findings. Actions taken by motion shall include findings and/or reasons for the proposed
              action.

           6. Non-unanimous Vote. Following a non-unanimous vote, the Chair may ask members
              who voted in opposition to the motion, to state the member’s reasoning on the record.

           7. Consensus Only. Items requiring consensus only may be so specified by the Chair who
              shall state the action determined.


                                                    4
      D. Not to Vote Unless Present. No member of the Commission shall be permitted to vote on any
         question unless the member is present when the vote is taken and when the result is announced.
         A member who is not physically present may nevertheless participate in the meeting through
         electronic means and be counted toward the quorum. All electronic meeting proceedings shall
         comply with state law. Any member participating via electronic means may make, second, and
         vote on all motions and participate in the discussion as though present. No member shall give
         his/her proxy to any persons whomsoever.

VI.      PROCEDURES FOR PUBLIC MEETINGS AND HEARINGS

         A. Public Meetings. The public is invited to all Planning Commission Meetings, including
            emergency, special, and work meetings. Public Meetings do not contain a public comment
            portion. The public must act in an orderly and appropriate manner. Except for the
            Commissioners and Staff, all persons in attendance shall give their names on the roles
            provided. The Chair may have any individual removed from the meeting for inappropriate
            conduct.

                1. Procedure at a Public Meeting. Unless altered by the Chair, the order of the
                   procedure at a public meeting on an application or decision item shall be:

                     a. Presentation of the application by Staff. Staff will introduce and present the
                        application to the Commission, including its recommendations, and a summary
                        of the pertinent written comments and reports concerning the application.

                     b. Applicant Presentation. The applicant will be given an opportunity to address
                        the Commission and explain/present additional information to the Commission
                        or answer any questions the Commission may have. The applicant’s
                        presentation shall not exceed fifteen (15) minutes, subject to the discretion of
                        the Chair.

                     c. Discussion and Vote. After Staff and applicant presentations have been made,
                        the members may discuss the application or decision item among the
                        Commission. Following the discussion, a motion must be made and seconded,
                        which may include, Approval, Approval with Conditions, Denial, a
                        recommendation to the City Council (as appropriate), or a continuation of the
                        item to a date specific.

                     d. Decisions. A decision of the Commission shall be documented on the record,
                        including the reasons for such decision.

         B. Public Hearings. The public is invited to all Planning Commission Public Hearings. The
            public must act in an orderly and appropriate manner. Public Hearings do contain a public
            comment portion. Except for the Commissioners and Staff, all persons in attendance shall
            give their names on the roles provided. The Chair may have any individual removed from
            the meeting for inappropriate conduct.

                1. Procedure at a Public Hearing. Unless altered by the Chair, the order of the procedure
                   at a public hearing on an application or decision item shall be:

                     a. Opening the Public Hearing. The Chair shall declare the public hearing open

                                                   5
         and invite Staff to present the decision item.

    b. Presentation of the Application by Staff. Staff will introduce and present the
       application to the Commission, including its recommendations, and a summary
       of the pertinent written comments and reports concerning the application.

    c. Applicant Presentation. The applicant will be given an opportunity to address
       the Commission and explain/present additional information to the Commission
       or answer any questions the Commission may have. The applicant’s
       presentation shall not exceed fifteen (15) minutes, subject to the discretion of
       the Chair.

    d. Members of the Public. Persons, other than the applicant, whether in favor or in
       opposition to the application, will be given the opportunity to address the
       Commission to provide comment on the item currently before the Commission
       for decision. Comments shall not exceed three (3) minutes per person.

    e. Rebuttal by the Applicant. The applicant may be given, as necessary, the
       opportunity to respond to new issues or questions raised by other parties.
       Rebuttal shall not exceed five (5) minutes.

    f.   Surrebuttal. At the discretion of the Chair, surrebuttal may be allowed.

    g. Closing the Public Hearing. After all presentations have been made, the Chair
       shall move to close the public hearing.

    h. Discussion and Vote. Members may continue to discuss the application or
       decision item among the Commission and Staff. The Commission may also ask
       the applicant any additional questions that may have been raised during their
       discussion. Following the discussion, a motion must be made and seconded,
       which may include, Approval, Approval with Conditions, Denial, a
       recommendation to the City Council (as appropriate), or a continuation of the
       item to a date specific.

    i.   Decisions. A decision of the Commission shall be documented on the record,
         including the reasons for such decision.

2. Rules for Persons Addressing the Commission.

   a. Each speaker, before addressing the Commission, shall give their name and
      address.

   b. Only one speaker is permitted before the Commission at a time.

   c. The discussion must be confined to the application or decision item currently
      before the Commission.

   d. The Chair may cease any presentation or information that has already been
      presented and acknowledge that it has been noted in the public record.



                                    6
VII.     ETHICS AND CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.

        A. Compliance. Members shall abide by Utah Code and City ordinances and annually complete
           any necessary forms, documents, and training.

        B. Recusal and Abstention. Any member declaring or having been found to have a conflict of
           interest shall step down and not participate in the discussion and vote pertaining to that
           particular matter. Reasons for abstention must be stated at the time of the abstention and
           such reason shall not be considered conflict of interest.


VIII.    MINUTES/RECORDS.

        A. Written Minutes. Written minutes shall be kept of all Planning Commission meetings. The
           approved minutes are public record and shall be available within a reasonable amount of time
           after approval. A draft of the minutes shall be presented to the commissioners with materials
           for the meeting at which approval is to be considered. Unless the meeting schedule prohibits,
           all draft minutes shall be presented to the Commissioners within 30 days of the meeting they
           represent. Such minutes shall include at least the following:

                1.      The date, time, and place of the meeting;
                2.      The names of the members present and absent;
                3.      The names of visitors and staff present; and
                4.      The substance of all matters proposed, discussed, or decided, and a record of the
                        votes taken.

        B. Recordings. A recording of all or any part of a Planning Commission meeting may be made by
          any person in attendance; providing the recording does not interfere with the conduct of the
          meeting.

IX.      AMENDMENTS.

        These bylaws may be amended at any regular Planning Commission meeting providing any
proposed amendments have been properly placed on the agenda and all Commission members provided
with a copy of the proposed amendments in advance of the meeting at which such amendments will be
considered. The bylaws will be amended upon majority vote.


         Effective Date: January 20, 2022 March 16, 2023.




                                                    7
                                       PLANNING COMMISSION STAFF REPORT

MEETING DATE:            March 16, 2023
PROJECT NUMBER:          S-23-001
REQUEST(S):              A petition to the Planning Commission for a final subdivision plat amendment to consolidate one
                         existing parcel and one condo plat consisting of fifty-seven units into one lot.
ADDRESS:                 3423 South Main Street
PARCEL NUMBER:           16-30-358-001 through 16-30-358-055, 16-30-353-012
PROPERTY OWNER:          Chinatown Investment, Inc.
APPLICANT:               Elyas Raigne

SYNOPSIS:
The Planning Commission reviewed
a preliminary plat on February 16th
and unanimously recommended
approval. (Preliminary Staff Report,
Draft Minutes)

On      behalf     of     Chinatown
Investment, Inc., Elyas Raigne is
petitioning       the       Planning
Commission for final approval of a
subdivision plat amendment to the
Chinatown Condo subdivision plat
to consolidate fifty-seven existing
parcels, including a condominium
plat and single parcel, into one lot
located at 3390 S State St.

The south parcel has one commercial building, formerly the site of asexually oriented business. This building will be used
as a retail space and will have six units. The parcel to the north is a condo plat that contains two buildings: the Chinatown
Supermarket building and a smaller retail space with multiple units.

The Planning Commission is the Land Use Authority on all subdivision plat applications and amendments.

   EXISTING           EXISTING &           SURROUNDING LAND USE               PROPOSED              PROPERTY ACCESS
   ZONING           PROPOSED USE                 DISTRICTS                      TOTAL
                                                                               ACREAGE
  Commercial             Retail            Commercial Corridor, TOD,         Approx. 6.47     State Street, Main Street
   Corridor                                      TOD Core                        acres


STAFF RECOMMENDATION:
Staff recommends the Planning Commission approve the Chinatown Condo subdivision plat to consolidate fifty-seven
existing parcels, including a condominium plat and single parcel, into one lot located at 3390 South State St.




                                                             1
                                      PLANNING COMMISSION STAFF REPORT

GENERAL INFORMATION:
    Location & Proposed Project Size:      Total Condo Plat Size: 5.6 acres
                                           Proposed Addition Size: 0.87 acres
                                           Approx.: 6.47 acres after consolidation

    Surrounding Land Use Districts:        North: Commercial Corridor
                                           South: Commercial Corridor
                                           East: Commercial Corridor
                                           West: TOD and TOD Core

Figure 1: Existing Parcels




                                                            2
Figure 2: Existing Site Conditions




                                     3
4
Figure 3: Proposed Elevations




                                5
Figure 4: Applicant’s Conceptual Site Plan




                                             *SITE PLAN IS CONCEPTUAL – SUBJECT TO TECHNICAL REVIEW




                                                         6
Figure 5: ALTA Survey




                        7
Figure 6: Final Plat **Final Plat in attachments**




PLANNING COMMISSION AUTHORITY:

17.11.030. Land use authority designations.
Pursuant to state law, the following administrative land use authority designations are made:

    A. Planning Commission. The planning commission is the land use authority on issues of: subdivision and subdivision
       plat approval.

Executive Summary, Page iii: “Diversity is a core value of this community…Maintaining and building on this diversity is the
foundation of this General Plan.”

GENERAL PLAN CONSIDERATIONS:


        Analysis: The proposed project will expand Salt Lake City Chinatown’s operations by adding six retail spaces which
        may house restaurants or stores. Chinatown’s existing retail spaces are especially geared towards providing goods
        to the local Asian community, and an expansion would build on the foundation of diversity already established by
        Chinatown.

Land Use & Neighborhoods Goal 4: Preserve and enhance the unique identity of South Salt Lake.


                                                             8
       Analysis: Salt Lake City Chinatown is a cultural hub unique to South Salt Lake in the Salt Lake Valley. The proposed
       project will enhance that identity by adding an additional six retail spaces and approximately eighty-six new parking
       spaces to the Chinatown Mall.

Economic Development Vision Statement, Page 38: “South Salt Lake is a community of opportunity for a variety of
businesses with diverse ownership serving a diverse community.”

       Analysis: The proposed project will add six new retail spaces specifically geared towards a minority population and
       will both encourage diverse ownership and further serve the Asian community in particular. Chinatown’s existing
       restaurants include Korean, Chinese, Vietnamese, and Japanese cuisines, and the Chinatown store itself offers
       groceries from and for a wide variety of Asian and Pacific Islander communities.

Economic Development Goal 1: Maximize South Salt Lake’s social and economic equity through value-based decision
making.

       Analysis: One of the strategies to achieve this goal is to “enhance and elevate South Salt Lake regional recognition.”
       Salt Lake City Chinatown has become a cultural hub and destination for a variety of Asian goods and cuisine unlike
       any other in Salt Lake County.




ORDINANCE ANALYSIS
               Ordinance                                         Finding                         Notes / Insufficiency
                                                   Title 17 – Land Use
17.10.140 – Subdivision Development Lot Standards
   A. All Final Plats shall result in the The proposed new lot will be compliant with
       creation of compliant Lots and South Salt Lake standards.
       Building sites.
   B. Frontage on public street             The proposed development will front on
                                            State Street and Main Street. Access is
                                            proposed to come from State Street and
                                            Main Street.
   C. Street right-of-way shall be The lot is separate from the Right of Way and
       separate and distinct from development is to take place within the
       subdivided lots.                     property lines and applicable setbacks.
   D. Minimum area and dimensions The Commercial Corridor Zone requires a
       shall conform.                       minimum acreage of one acre for a new non-
                                            residential lot. The proposed lot is
                                            approximately 6.47 acres.
   E. Side boundary lines shall be at All newly created side boundary lines are at
       right angles to the street.          right angles to all adjacent streets.
   F. Side boundary lines of lots shall be Not Applicable
       radial to center of a Cul-de-Sac
   G. Corner lots for residential uses Not applicable
       shall be platted wider than interior
       lots
   H. Lots shall not be divided by City All existing and proposed parcels are located
       boundary                             within South Salt Lake City.
   I. Double frontage residential lots      Not applicable
   J. Minimum separation between This site has been designed to allow for
       structures                           minimum separations between structures.
   K. Side lot lines shall be at right The newly created side lot lines are at a right
       angles to street lines               angle to street lines.
                                                            9
  L. Dimensions of Corner Lots shall be    The final site plan indicates sufficient size to
     large enough to allow for erection    allow for erection of buildings.
     of Buildings
  M. Depth and width of properties         The final site plan provides adequate off-
     shall be adequate to provide for      street parking.
     off-street parking and loading
     facilities
  N. New Single-Family lots shall not      Not applicable
     front on an Arterial or Collector
     Street
  O. If Access from an Arterial or         The primary access points will be from Main
     Collector Street is necessary for     Street and State Street.
     new adjoining lots, such lots shall
     be served by separate local street
  P. Driveways shall be designed and       There is ingress and egress provided from
     arranged to avoid vehicles backing    both Main Street and State Street. Neither
     onto Streets                          entrance will force vehicles to back onto
                                           streets. The applicant will close the existing
                                           curb cut on the Main Street addition and use
                                           the curb cut currently serving the northern
                                           lot.
   Q. Lots shall be laid out to provide    Per the Engineering review, there is positive
       positive drainage away from all     drainage away from all buildings.
       buildings.
17.10.150 – Subdivision Layout Requirements
    A. Frontage on and Arrangement to No dedications are required.
        Improved Roads
17.10.160 – Drainage and Storm Sewers
    A. Location. Upon recommendation Not applicable per Engineering review.
        of City Engineer, applicants may
        be required to carry away by pipe
        or open channel any spring or
        surface water that may exist
        either previously to or as a result
        of the subdivision.
    B. Adequate               underground Per the engineering review, there is an
        stormwater systems shall be adequate underground stormwater system.
        constructed and maintained.
    C. Accommodation of Upstream Not applicable
        Drainage Areas.
    D. Adequate storm / flood water Per the engineering review, there is adequate
        drainage will be provided to an storm or flood water drainage.
        approved drainage watercourse
        or facility with capacity.
    E. Areas of poor drainage shall be Sufficient drainage is provided per
        remediated as applicable.           Engineering review.
    F. Flood plain areas shall be Not Applicable
        preserved                     upon
        recommendation of City Engineer
        when necessary for the health,
        safety, or welfare of the
        population of the area.
17.10.170 – Water Facilities


                                                            10
    A. Applicant shall extend public          There is currently adequate water supply
       culinary water supply-system for       provisions per SSL Engineering review.
       the purpose of providing an
       adequate water-supply to the
       Plat
    B. Applicant shall install adequate       The site already has adequate water facilities
       water facilities including fire        including fire hydrants per the SSL Fire
       hydrants.                              Marshal.
    C. Fire flow shall be approved by the     A fire flow test was performed and the results
       Fire Marshal.                          were reviewed by the Fire Marshal. The Fire
                                              Marshal has reviewed and approved all
                                              proposed fire flow rates.
    D. Water main extensions shall            Not applicable.
        meet the City’s standards.
    E. A determination shall be made as       Not applicable. There are no facilities at this
        to location or extent of facilities   location to be maintained by South Salt Lake
        to be maintained by South Salt        City.
        Lake City, if any.
    F. Fire hydrants required for all         The site already has adequate fire hydrants
        plats.                                per the SSL Fire Marshal.
17.10.180 – Sewer Facilities
    A. Applicant shall install sanctuary      A will serve letter has been submitted from
        sewer facilities in a manner          Mt. Olympus Improvement District.
        prescribed by the applicable
        sanitary sewer authority.
    B. Sanitary sewer facilities shall        A will serve letter has been submitted from
        connect with the public sanitary      Mt. Olympus Improvement District.
        sewer at sizes required by the
        sanitary sewer authority.
17.10.190 – Utilities
    A. Utility facilities shall be located                                                      This will be evaluated by the
        underground in new subdivisions.                                                        SSL City Engineer at the time
                                                                                                of permit submission.
    B. Easements centered on Rear Lot All utilities already have easements.
        Lines shall be provided for private
        and municipal utilities; such
        easements shall be at least 10’
        wide.
17.10.200 – Sidewalks, Trails and Bike Paths
    A. Subdivision shall comply with the Both Main Street and State Street comply
        applicable road profile.            with the applicable road profiles.

.
    B. Trails, pedestrian paths, and bike     Not applicable.
        paths shall relate appropriately to
        topography.
    C. Trails, pedestrian paths, and bike     Not applicable.
        paths shall be provided in
        accordance with the Trails
        Master Plan.
17.10.210 – Nonresidential Subdivisions
    A. Proposed industrial Parcels shall      Not applicable.
        be suitable in Area and
        dimensions to the types of

                                                                11
          industrial         Development
          anticipated.


     B. Street Rights-of-Way subbase,                                                         This will be reviewed by the
        pavement width, and pavement                                                          SSL Engineering Department
        depth shall be adequate to                                                            prior to final plat approval.
        accommodate the type.
     C. Every effort shall be made to         The proposed development is not adjacent to
        protect adjacent residential          any residential areas.
        Areas from potential nuisance
        from a proposed commercial or
        industrial Subdivision.

STAFF RECOMMENDATION:
Based upon the information submitted in the application, supporting documentation, and analysis of the relevant code
sections and general plan goals, Staff recommends the Planning Commission move to approve, with conditions, the final
subdivision plat amendment and proposes the following findings of fact and conclusions of law and conditions of approval:

Findings of Fact:

    1.     The subject properties, located at 3390 S State Street and 3423 S Main Street, consist of two separate lots,
           including one condominium lot with fifty-six units.
    2.     All lots are located in the Commercial Corridor (CC) zone.
    3.     The proposed subdivision will consolidate one existing lot and fifty-six condominium lots located at 3390 S State
           Street and 3423 S Main Street.
    4.     The proposed subdivision will create one lot that will be 6.47 acres in size.
    5.     The proposed development will be located in the Commercial Core (CC) land use district.
    6.     The proposed building falls into the Retail, General land use category.
    7.     The Retail, General use is a permitted land use in the CC zone.
    8.     The subject properties currently consist of the Chinatown Mall and a vacant building.
           The building located at 3423 S Main Street has been vacant since December 2021. It was previously a sexually
           oriented business.
    9.     The proposed lot will be served by existing access points on State Street and Main Street.
    10.    Staff has reviewed this subdivision for compliance with SSL Municipal Code Section “17.10.140 Subdivision
           Development Lot Standards” and found that this subdivision is compliant with this section, as outlined above.
    11.    Staff has reviewed this subdivision for compliance with SSL Municipal Code Section “17.10.150 Subdivision and
           Condominium Plat Layout Requirements” and found that this subdivision is compliant with this section, as
           outlined above.
    12.    Staff has reviewed this subdivision for compliance with SSL Municipal Code Sections 17.10.160, 17.10.170,
           17.10.180, 17.10.190, 17.10.200, and 17.10.210, and found that this subdivision is compliant with those sections,
           as outlined above.

Conclusions of Law:

    1.     The subdivision, as specifically conditioned below, is consistent with the South Salt Lake City General Plan.
    2.     The subdivision, as specifically conditioned below is compatible in use, scale, and design with the allowed uses in
           the CC zone.
    3.     The subdivision as specifically conditioned below, does not compromise the health, safety, or welfare of: Persons
           employed within or using the proposed development; Those residing or working in the vicinity of the proposed
           use or development; or Property or improvements in the vicinity of the proposed use or development.
    4.     The subdivision, as specifically conditioned below does not impose disproportionate burdens on the citizens of
           the city.

Conditions of Approval:

                                                             12
   1.    The applicant will continue to work with City staff to make all technical corrections necessary prior to recording;
   2.    Prior to plat recordation and any additional development of the subsequent lot, the applicant must provide city
         staff the final plat mylar to include notarized signatures of owners’ consent to dedication; obtain signatures of
         all entities indicated on the subdivision plat attached hereto;
   3.    The applicant shall complete (or post an adequate improvement completion assurance), warrant and post
         required warranty assurance for all required landscaping and public infrastructure improvements;
   4.    The applicant shall ensure that all site improvements are installed consistent with the requirements of the South
         Salt Lake City Municipal Code;
   5.    The applicant shall dedicate an easement to the City of South Salt for purposes of storm water management
         practices and ensure the plat includes language of the dedication of such easement, in a form as approved by the
         City Attorney’s Office;
   6.    The proposed building shall be constructed according to South Salt Lake commercial design standards;
   7.    The plans shall provide a fencing plan that is constructed according to South Salt Lake commercial design
         standards;
   8.    All items of the staff report.

PLANNING COMMISSION OPTIONS:


   Option 1: Approval
   Move to approve the application by Elyas Raigne, on behalf of Chinatown Investment, Inc. for a final subdivision plat
   amendment for the fifty-seven lot subdivision consolidation of the subject properties located at 3390 S State Street and
   3423 S Main Street, with the conditions enumerated in the staff report and on the record.

   Option 2: Denial
   Move to deny the application by Elyas Raigne, on behalf of Chinatown Investment, Inc. for a final subdivision plat
   amendment for the fifty-seven lot subdivision consolidation of the subject properties located at 3390 S State Street and
   3423 S Main Street, for the reasons stated on the record.

   Option 3: Continuance
   Move to table the decision on the application by Elyas Raigne, on behalf of Chinatown Investment, Inc. for a final
   subdivision plat amendment for the fifty-seven lot subdivision consolidation of the subject properties located at 3390 S
   State Street and 3423 S Main Street to a date certain to allow the Applicant and Staff time to respond to specific inquiries
   or concerns raised by the Planning Commission, or to allow the Planning Commission more time to consider the
   proposal.


Attachments:
    1.  ALTA Survey
    2.  Final Subdivision Plat
    3.  Chinatown Expansion Elevations




                                                             13
                                                                                                                                                    BENCHMARK
                       CALL BLUESTAKES
                                                                                                                                  STREET MONUMENT
               R       @ 811 AT LEAST 48 HOURS
                                                                                                                                  INTERSECTION OF
                       PRIOR TO THE
                                                                                                                                  STATE STREET &
                       COMMENCEMENT OF ANY

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ENSIGN
Know what's below.                                                                                                                3300 SOUTH STREET
   Callbefore you dig. CONSTRUCTION.                                                                                              (FOUND 2" BRASS CAP)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 STREET MONUMENT
                                                                                                                                  ELEV =4257.91'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      STATE STREET                                                                                                                                         THE STANDARD IN ENGINEERING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               & 3300 SOUTH STREET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (FOUND 2" BRASS CAP)
                     SS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SALT LAKE CITY
                                                                                                                                                                           WRD PROPERTIES, LLC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            OFFICE FURNITURE LIQUIDATORS, INC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   45 W. 10000 S., Suite 500
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              OFFICE FURNITURE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Sandy, UT 84070




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              OHP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LIQUIDATORS, INC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Phone: 801.255.0529
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EXIST. ELEC POLE
                            EXIST. BOLLARD                                                                                      SET BAR                                            EXIST. BUILDING                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SET BAR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    N 89°53'10" E                               429.43'                                                                                                                                                                       & CAP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LAYTON
                                                                                                                                & CAP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           WEST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NORTH 429.43'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EAST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SOUTH 429.43'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  429.43'
                     SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EXIST. ELEC BOX                                  OHP                                                 X                            OHP                                         OHP                              OHP                            OHP
    OHP                               OHP                                                                                        OHP                              OHP                                                          OHP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 58                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Phone: 801.547.1100
                                                                                                                                                  EXIST. ELEC POLE        0                                               E                                                                   42
                                                                                              D                                        EXIST. LIGHT SINGLE            7.9                                                                                                                                                                                               EXIST. BOLLARD
                                                                                                                                                                  425                             E    E
                                                                                                                                                                                                               E                                               EXIST. SDCB SQR                                                                                        FOUND RIVET                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TOOELE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TOG=4258.26
                       EXIST. SDCO                                                                                                                                                                                        EXIST. ELEC METER EXIST. BOLLARD FL(8"PVC)SW=4254.26
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Phone: 435.843.3590




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                82.50'
                        RIM=4256.60                                                                                                                                                                                       EXIST. ELEC BOX                                                                                                                        E                               E
                                                                                                                                                  EXIST. LIGHT SINGLE
                FL(12"RCP)E=4251.90
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CEDAR CITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               DUMPSTER PAD                                                                                                                                                          EXIST. ELEC BOX
                                                                                                                                          4257

              FL(18"RCP)N-S=4251.30                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Phone: 435.865.1453
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LOADING RAMP
                     SS




                                                                                                                                                      EDGE OF ASPHAL                                                                                                                                       ASPHALT
                                                                                                                                                                     T                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OFFICE FURNITURE LIQUIDATORS, INC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        RICHFIELD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S 0°01'05" E
                                                                                             SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NORTH 82.50'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                WEST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EAST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SOUTH 82.50'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       82.50'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          7
                                                                 42                                                                                                                                                                        SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       425
                                                                    5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               S
                                                                            6.5
                                                                                    5                                                                                                                                 EXIST. SDCB ROUND                                                                                                                                   EXIST. GAS METER end x10                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Phone: 435.896.2983
                                                                       TB
                            EXIST. SDCB                                         C                                                                                                                                             TOG=4256.57
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EXIST. SSMH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SD
                            TOG=4256.38                                                                                                                           EXIST. SIGN                                      FL(12"RCP)S-W=4252.17
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              RIM=4257.88
                   FL(18"RCP)N-S=4251.78                                                                                                                                                                           FL(8"PVC)E-NE)=4253.07                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                POINT OF BEGINNING
                                                                                                                                                                                                  SD                                                              FL(6"PVC)E-W-S=4254.38                                                                                   EXIST. GAS METER end x10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EXIST. SS GREASE TRAP                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PARCEL 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SET BAR & CAP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                30 PARKING
                      EXIST. UTIL GUY WIRE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             RIM=4258.83                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        WWW.ENSIGNENG.CO
                     SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SET BAR
                      EXIST. ELEC POLE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EXIST. LIGHT DOUBLE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         N 89°53'02" E                       264.42'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                STALLS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 & CAP                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        S 89°53'02" W                                            66.00'
                                                                                             SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                WEST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EAST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NORTH 264.42'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      264.42'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       264.42'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  WEST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EAST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NORTH 66.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        66.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          66.00'




                                                                                                                                                                  SD                                                                                                                                                                S        S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EXIST. SS GREASE TRAP                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        FOR:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     E                                                           EXIST. ELEC TRANSFORMER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        RIM=4258.60                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ANDREW SO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ALTA / NSPS LAND TITLE & TOPOGRAPHY SURVEY
                                                                                                                                                                  EXIST. SDCB 48"X36"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S                             TRAFFIC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3575 SOUTH 1950 WEST
                                                                                          .90                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EXIST. TRAFFIC SIG BOX (SMALL)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EXIST. LIGHT SINGLE
                                                                                4256                                                                              TBC=4255.60
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            BUILDING                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      WEST VALLEY CITY, UTAH 84119
                                                                                                                                                                  FL(12"CMP)E=4253.40                                                      EXIST. SS GREASE TRAP
                                                                                                                                                          4256




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S
                                                                                             IRR
                                                                                           IRR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      RIM=4258.39                                                          OVERHANG
                                                                                                                                                                                                        EDGE OF ASPHALT

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CONTACT:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ANDREW SO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2 ADA STALLS
                                                                                                                                   EXIST. IRR BOX
                     SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        26 PARKING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PHONE:                 801-809-3229




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       TR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        STALLS &
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EXIST. BUILDING                                                                                                 EXIST. SDCB SQR
                                                                                            SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    EXIST. SS GREASE TRAP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                8 PARKING STALLS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               RIM=4258.38
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        FL=6"PVC)N=4254.98
                               MAIN STREET




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EXIST. TRAFFIC SIG BOX (SMALL)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SD
                                             (PUBLIC STREET)




                                                                                                                                                                                                        EXIST. LIGHT DOUBLE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SHOW CLUB - CHINATOWN MALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       TRAFFIC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EXIST. LIGHT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EXIST. SIGN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EXIST. BUILDING                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DOUBLE
                     SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SD                                       SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 STATE STREET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (UDOT CONTROLLED)
                                                                                            SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PARCEL 2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CURB & GUTTER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EXIST. LIGHT SINGLE                  EXIST. LIGHT SINGLE           EXIST. LIGHT SINGLE        EXIST. LIGHT SINGLE                         EXIST. LIGHT SINGLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                         EXIST. SDCB ROUND




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SIDEWALK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CONC MEDIAN
                                                                                                                                                           DIRT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          16-303-580-560
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TOG=4256.59
                                                                                                                                                                                                       FL(12"RCP)N-S=4252.09                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CONTAINS 243,833 sq. ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ASPHALT
                                                               WV
                                                                 WV
                                                                                                                                                                                                          FL(6"PVC)E=4250.19                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 5.60 acres                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  16 PARKING STALLS                                                                     EXIST. SIGN
                                                                 WV

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         & 3 PARKING ADA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SIDEWALK                                                                                 STALLS
                     SS




                                                                                              N 0°01'31" W Y 382.94'
                                                                                            SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SOUTH SALT LAKE, UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4258




             EXIST. WATER VALVE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EXIST. LIGHT SINGLE
                                                                                                                                4257




                                                                                                                                                                                           4257




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ASPHALT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4658.34'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EXIST. SDCB
                                                                                                               D
                                                                      WV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EXIST. SDCB SQR
                                                                                             H




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3390 SOUTH STATE
                      EXIST. FIRE HYDRANT                                                     SOUTH
                                                                                              NORTH 382.94'
                                                                                              EAST
                                                                                              WEST  382.94'
                                                                                                     382.94'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EXIST. LIGHT DOUBLE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EXIST. LIGHT SINGLE                                                   EXIST. SIGN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    BASIS OF BEARING S 0°00'45" E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           18 PARKING STALLS
                     SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       300.33'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EXIST. LIGHT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          26 PARKING STALLS
                                                                                            SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     DOUBLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         BUILDING                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EXIST. LIGHT SINGLE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          WEST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NORTH 4658.34'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    EAST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SOUTH 4658.34'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4658.34'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          8 PARKING STALLS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OVERHANG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          & 2 PARKING ADA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3 PARKING STALLS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SD




                                                                 4257
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1 ADA STALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    12 PARKING




                                                               TBC                  .24
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    STALLS &




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           18 PARKING STALLS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       S 0°00'45" E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                & 1 ADA STALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       WEST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       NORTH 300.33'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EAST  300.33'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              300.33'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          STALLS
                                                                                                                                                                                                            EXIST. SDCB ROUND                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EXIST. SDCB
                     SS




                                               4257                                                                                                                                                                 TOG=4256.72
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EXIST. LIGHT SINGLE
                                                                                            SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                        FL(12"RCP)N-S-E=4252.52                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EXIST. SDCB                                       COMMON AREA                  EXIST. SDCB                                                                                             EXIST. TELEPHONE MH
                                                                                                                                                                                                             FL(6"PVC)W=4253.12
                                                                                                                                   EXIST. IRR BOX                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EXIST. LIGHT SINGLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SD




                                                                                                                                           EXIST. ELEC POLE cl 12"dia n-s-w                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  T
                                                                                                                         IRR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        T
                                                                                                                       IRR
                                                                                          IRR




                                                                                                                                           EXIST. UTIL GUY WIRE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            17 PARKING STALLS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              COMMON AREA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EXIST. LIGHT                                                                                                                        EXIST. LIGHT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    EXIST. LIGHT DOUBLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SD                                                                                             EXIST. LIGHT SINGLE                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DOUBLE                                                                                                                          DOUBLE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TB 0
                     SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         60
                                             4257                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EXIST. SIGN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        42
                                                                                            SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EXIST. LIGHT SINGLE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    EXIST. LIGHT SINGLE                              BUILDING                              EXIST. LIGHT SINGLE            EXIST. LIGHT SINGLE                                                                                4259
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           17 PARKING STALLS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    OVERHANG                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EXIST. TELEPHONE MH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SD




                                                                                                                                                 EDGE OF ASPHALT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          T
                                                                                                                                                                       EXIST. SDCB                                                                                                                                ASPHALT                                                                                                                                                         EXIST. SDCB SQR 40X40                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ASPHALT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EXIST. SIGN
                                                                                                                                                                       TOG=4257.52                                   EXIST. SDCB ROUND                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TOG=4257.32                                                                                                                                      SD                         SD                        SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EXIST. SDCB SQR                                                         ENTRANCE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4260
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SD      EXIST. SDCB
                     SS




                                                                                                                                                                       FL(12"PVC)W=4254.32                                   TOG=4256.71                                                                                                                                                                    SD                                                                   FL(12"HDPE)E-W=4254.02
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SD                              SD                                       SD                                           SD                                                                                                                                                                        TOG=4257.57                                                              FEATURE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     FL(12"RCP)N=4253.01                                                                                   EXIST. SDCB SQR 40X40                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TOG=4257.88
                                                                                            SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4261
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TOG=4258.11                                                                                                            COMMON AREA                                                                                                              FL(12"HDPE)W=4254.28                                                                                                                            FL(12"RCP)W=4255.07
                                                                                                                                                                                           EXIST. LIGHT SINGLE cl 24"base                                                                                                FL(12"HDPE)NW-E=4253.21                            EXIST. SDCB SQR 40X40                                                                                                                                                                                      FL(12"RCP)E=4254.28




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              8                                                                                                                                                                                                        DUMPSTER PAD                      EXIST. LIGHT SINGLE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     426
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TOG=4257.34                                       425
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        58




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EXIST. LIGHT SINGLE                                    4258
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      42




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           FL(12"HDPE)W-E=4253.44                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EXIST. IRR BOX




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TB 9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TB 7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        20 PARKING STALLS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              58
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            58




                             EXIST. IRR BOX                                                                                              EXIST. SIGN       6 PARKING STALLS                                                                                                                                                     EXIST. LIGHT SINGLE                                                                   35 PARKING STALLS                                                                                                                                        EXIST. LIGHT SINGLE                                                           EXIST. BOLLARD                                                                                    EXIST. SIGN                                                                              EXIST. SIGN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             42
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          42




                                                                                                                                                                                                                               X                                                                                                                                                                                                          CURB & GUTTER                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EXIST. ELEC BOX
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EXIST. TELEPHONE BOX
                          EXIST. ELEC POLE                                                                                                              FENCE END                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            FENCE END                                                 EXIST. ELEC POLE
                                                                                                                       IRR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     WALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               IRR
                     SS




                     EXIST. SDCO                                                                                                                        IS 0.7' NORTH                                                                           EXIST. BOLLARD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EXIST. SIGN                                                                      IS 0.7' NORTH
                                                                                                                                SET BAR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VINYL FENCE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    OF PROP LINE                                                                           E
                      RIM=4257.20                                                                                                                       OF PROP LINE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      S 89°52'34" W                                                    66.00'
                                                                                            SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       56.37'
                                                                                                                                & CAP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      NORTH 66.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      WEST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EAST  66.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              66.00'




                                                                                                                                                                       X                                X                                                     X                                                     X                                     X                                             X                        X                               X                                      X                                            X                          X                                                 X
              FL(24"RCP)S=4253.70                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EAST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 WEST   693.77'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 NORTH 693.77'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       693.77'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             X
              FL(12"PVC)N=4253.70                                                                                                                                                                             EXIST. ELEC POLE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S 89°52'34" W                          693.77'
                                                                                             D                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    EXIST. ELEC POLE                                                                                                           SS                                                                                                                                                                                          EXIST. SIGN
                                                                                                                                                                                                  EXIST. UTIL GUY WIRE                                                                                                                                                                               47 PARKING STALLS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         POINT OF BEGINNING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .30
                      EXIST. SDCB                                                                                                                    EXIST. SIGN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             FENCE END                                                    PARCEL 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EXIST. SS GREASE TRAP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         60
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       S 0°00'45" E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           IS 1.3' SOUTH   EXIST. SSMH SAMPLING
                                                                                          N 0°01'31" W




                      TOG=4256.62




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        42
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       RIM=4262.91                                                                                               FOUND BAR & CAP                       EAST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       NORTH 56.37'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       WEST  56.37'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              56.37'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   NAL ND S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      425                                                                                                                                       ASPHALT                                                                EXIST. SS GREASE TRAP                              OF PROP LINE               RIM=4261.46                    LS 4776 MILLER                                                                       EXIST. ELEC BOX
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PARCEL 1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            IO
                                                                                             54.87'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4258                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EXIST. LIGHT DOUBLE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      FL = 4255.82
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ASPHALT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            RIM=4262.85                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  10/26/22




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            UR
                     SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EXIST. UTIL GUY WIRE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           16-303-353-012




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                       WEST
                                                                                                                       NORTH
                                                                                                                       54.87'
                                                                                                                       EAST
                                                                                                                       SOUTH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EXIST. BUILDING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PROFE
            EXIST. WATER VALVE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                42
                                                                                                                                4257.35                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EXIST. WATER SPGT                                                                       E
                                                                                            SD




                                                                                                                                             EXIST. BOLLARD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       No. 286882




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                YOR
                                                                  WV
                                                                       WV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EXIST. LIGHT SINGLE                                                                CONTAINS 38,587 sq. ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    D                                                                                   EXIST. WATER METER
                                                                                                                                                                           FENCE END                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.89 acres                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EXIST. TELEPHONE BOX
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             FENCE END                                                                                                    EXIST. WATER MH                                               WM                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PATRICK M.
               EXIST. SD VAULT                                                                                                                                             IS 0.2' NORTH                                                                                                                                 CHAIN LINK FENCE                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EXIST. LIGHT SINGLE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EXIST. GAS LINE SIGN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              42




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             IS 1.4' NORTH                                                                                                     RIM=4261.41                                              WM                               EXIST. ELEC POLE                                                                                                                                                                          HARRIS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        21 PARKING STALLS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  58




                   RIM=4257.31                                                                                                                                             OF PROP LINE                                                                                                                                 ON RETAINING WALL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SET BAR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .55




                                                                                                                                       FOUND RIVET                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OF PROP LINE
           FL(24"RCP)N-4254.31                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CURB & GUTTER                                                                                                                                                   X                           X                                                 X                                                                                                                                                                 & CAP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      X
                                                                                              SDV




                                                                                                                                                                               X                                               X                                          X                                                     X                                     X                                          X                            X                           X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CURB & GUTTER
          FL(12"RCP)SE=4254.31                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TA
                                                                                                               Y D




                                                                           WV

                                                                                                                                                          EXIST. ELEC POLE & LIGHT SINGLE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          WEST                               693.75'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       8                                                                            EXIST. LIGHT SINGLE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EXIST. ELEC POLE                         EXIST. BUILDING                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  OF U
              EXIST. WATER VALVE                                                                                                                                                                                                   425
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              NORTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EAST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              N 90°00'00"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       693.75'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        693.75'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          W 693.75'
                                                                                              H




                                                                                                                                       EXIST. UTIL GUY WIRE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EXIST. LIGHT SINGLE        EXIST. ELEC POLE & LIGHT SINGLE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     FENCE END
                     SS




                  EXIST. FIRE HYDRANT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    IS 3.4' NORTH
                                                                                             SD




                           EXIST. ELEC POLE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OF PROP LINE                                                                                                                                                                                                                    MEDIAN ISLAND




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SIDEWALK
              GV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CHINA TOWN PALZA, LLC
                   EXIST. GAS VALVE
                     SS




                                                                                                                                                                        LEGEND
                                                                           WV



                                                                            EXIST. WATER VALVE
                                                                                            SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 STREET MONUMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                           SECTION CORNER                                                                                                 STORM DRAIN CATCH BASIN                                                                    MINOR CONTOURS 1' INCREMENT                                                      DEED LINE                                                                     SECONDARY WATERLINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SW                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                STATE STREET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               & 3900 SOUTH STREET                                                                                                                                        ALTA / NSPS
                                                                                                                                                                                                           MONUMENT                                                                                                       STORM DRAIN COMBO BOX                                                                      MAJOR CONTOURS 5' INCREMENT                                                      TANGENT LINE                                                  IRR             IRRIGATION LINE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (FOUND 2" BRASS CAP)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LAND TITLE &
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  D




                                                                                                                                                                 ENSIGN ENG.                               EXIST REBAR AND CAP                                                                                            STORM DRAIN CULVERT                                                                        CONCRETE                                                                         EXIST DITCH FLOW LINE                                                         CENTERLINE
                                                                                                                                                                 LAND SURV.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TOPOGRAPHY
                                                                                                                                                                                                           SET ENSIGN REBAR AND CAP                                                                                       SIGN                                                                                       BUILDING PRIMARY                                       X                         FENCE                                                                         PROPERTY LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SURVEY
                                                                                                                                                                                                           SET RIVET                                                                                  U                   UTILITY MANHOLE                                                                            BUILDING SECONDARY                                                               EDGE OF ASPHALT                                                               ADJACENT PROPERTY LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PROJECT NUMBER                          PRINT DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                   WM                      WATER METER                                                                                                    UTILITY POLE                                                                               BUILDABLE AREA WITHIN SETBACKS                         SS                        SANITARY SEWER                                                 E              ELECTRIC POWERLINE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    10600                                   7/21/22
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DRAWN BY                                CHECKED BY
                                                                                                                                                                                   W                       WATER MANHOLE                                                                                                  GAS METER                                                                                  PUBLIC DRAINAGE EASEMENT                             SD                          STORM DRAIN LINE                                               T              TELEPHONE LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        HORIZONTAL GRAPHIC SCALE          B. GREENLEAF                            P. HARRIS
                                                                                                                                                                                   WV                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               IRR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LOCATED IN THE SOUTHWEST
                                                                                                                                                                                                           WATER VALVE                                                                                                    TREE                                                                                       ADJACENT RIGHT OF WAY                                                            GAS LINE                                                                      IRRIGATION VALVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            G                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 QUARTER OF SECTION 30                                                                                                                                                                               30        0         15        30   60
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PROJECT MANAGER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          P. HARRIS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S
                                                                                                                                                                                       Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                           FIRE HYDRANT                                                                               OHP                 OVERHEAD POWER LINE                                                                        RIGHT OF WAY                                           W                         WATER LINE                                                                    SANITARY SEWER MANHOLE                                                                                                                                                                                               TOWNSHIP 1 SOUTH, RANGE 1 EAST
                                                                                                                                                                                   H

                                                                                                                                                                                       D




                                                                                                                                                                                       E                   ELECTRIC METER

                                                                                                                                                                                                           SCHEDULE B-2 EXCEPTIONS                                                            NOTE: MAY CONTAIN SYMBOLS THAT ARE NOT USED IN THIS PLAN SET.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     D              STORM DRAIN CLEAN OUT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SOUTH SALT LAKE, SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ( IN FEET )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             HORZ: 1 inch = 30 ft.                         2 OF 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3300 S                                                                                                SURVEYOR'S CERTIFICATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CHINATOWN MALL SUBDIVISION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3335 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I,        PATRICK M. HARRIS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              License No.          286882
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              , do hereby certify that I am a Professional Land Surveyor in the State of Utah and that I hold
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      in accordance with Title 58, Chapter 22, of the Professional Engineers and Land Surveyor's Act; I further
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              certify that by authority of the Owners, I have completed a survey of the property described on this subdivision plat and filed survey as
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S2023-01-0026 in the office of the Salt Lake County Surveyor, in accordance with Section 17-23-17 and have verified all measurements;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    AMENDING AND EXTENDING ALL OF CHINATOWN CONDOMINIUM PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               that the reference monuments shown on this plat are located as indicated and are sufficient to accurately establish the lateral boundaries
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              of the herein described tract of real property; and has been drawn correctly to the designated scale and is a true and correct
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LOCATED IN BLOCK 16, 10 ACRE PLAT "A", BIG FIELD SURVEY IN THE SOUTHWEST                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     representation of the herein described lands included in said subdivision, based upon data compiled from records of the county recorders
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3400 S                                                                                   office. I further certify that all lots meet frontage width and area requirements of the applicable zoning ordinances.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                QUARTER OF SECTION 30, TOWNSHIP 1 SOUTH, RANGE 1 EAST, SALT LAKE BASE &
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MERIDIAN SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MAIN ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          FORD AVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BOUNDARY DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3390 SOUTH STATE STREET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             All of Chinatown Condominium Project recorded February 26, 2008 as Entry No. 10357839 in Book 2008P at Page 45, and an entire




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         STATE ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SITE                                                     tract disclosed in that Warranty Deed recorded on May 11, 2021 as Entry No. 13659599, in the Office of the Salt Lake County
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Recorder. Said parcel is situate in Block 16, 10 Acre Plat "A", Big Field Survey in the Southwest Quarter of Section 30, Township 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             South, Range 1 East, Salt Lake Base and Meridian, being more particularly described as follows:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Beginning at a point on the Easterly Right-of-Way line of Main Street, said point is located North 89°53'08 East 33.00 feet from the
                                                                                                                                  STREET MONUMENT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VICINITY MAP
                                                                                                                                  MAIN STREET
                                                                                                                                  & 3300 SOUTH STREET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3300 SOUTH STREET                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (NOT TO SCALE)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Southwest Corner Lot 10 of Block 16 Ten Acre Plat “A” Big Field Survey, said point is also located South 89°54'00” West 792.97 feet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             along the Monument Line of 3300 South Street and South 00°01'31 East 607.48 feet along the Monument Line of Main Street and
                                                                                                                                  (FOUND 2" BRASS CAP)                                                                                                                         (PUBLIC STREET)                                         S 89°54'00" W 792.97'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             North 89°53'08” East 33.00 feet from the found Street Monument at the intersection of State Street and 3300 South Street; and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         STREET MONUMENT                                                                                                                     running
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         STATE STREET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         & 3300 SOUTH STREET                                                                                                                         thence along the boundary of said Chinatown Condominium Project the following five (5) courses:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (FOUND 2" BRASS CAP)                                                                                                                        (1) North 00°01'31" West 82.50 feet along said Easterly Right-of-Way line;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (2) North 89°53'10" East 429.43 feet;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (3) South 00°01'05" East 82.50 feet;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              OF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (4) North 89°53'02" East 264.42 feet to the Westerly Right-of-Way line of State Street;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (5) South 00°00'45" East 356.70 feet along said Westerly Right-of-Way line to the Northeast Corner of an entire tract
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LIQ FIC




                                                                                                                         607.48'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             disclosed in that Warranty Deed recorded June 1, 1961 as Entry No. 1780540;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               UI E FU                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               thence West 693.75 feet (Deed = 42 rods) along the Northerly line of said entire tract to the Easterly Right-of-Way line of Main
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            16 DA R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -30 TO NI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Street;
                                                                                                                                                                                                 WRD PROPERTIES, LLC                                             -35 RS TUR




                                                                                                                         S 0°01'31" E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      OFFICE FURNITURE LIQUIDATORS, INC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              thence North 00°01'31" West 355.31 feet along said Easterly Right-of-Way line to the point of beginning.
                                                                                                                                                                                                     16-30-353-001                                                  3-0 , IN E                                                  16-30-353-005                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       02 C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Contains 282,420 Square Feet or 6.483 Acres.                                                                        NAL ND SU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               IO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      N 89°53'10" E        429.43'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               02/28/23




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  RV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PROFE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       239.79'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    EYOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      82.50'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 No. 286882
                                                                                                                                                                                      61.04'                 40.58'                           108.19'                10' PUBLIC UTILITY EASEMENT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PATRICK M.



                                                                                                                                         N 0°01'31" W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  HARRIS



                                                                                                                                            82.50'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      S 0°01'05" E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 5'X10' UTILITY EASEMENT TO                                                                                                                                           OFFICE FURNITURE LIQUIDATORS, INC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 BE DEDICATED TO ROCKY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  T   E O F UT
                                                                                            SOUTHWEST CORNER LOT 10
                                                                                            BLOCK 16 TEN ACRE PLAT "A"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 MOUNTAIN POWER COMPANY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 WITH RECORDATION OF THIS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                16-30-353-010
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         02/28/23
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PLAT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Date                                                   PATRICK M. HARRIS
                                                                                                     BIG FIELD SURVEY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   N 89°53'02" E         264.42'                                                                 66.0'                                                                         66.0'                                                                                                                                                                                        P.L.S. 286882
                                                                                                          (NOT FOUND) N 89°53'08" E
                                                                                                                         33.00'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                223.94'                                        40.47'
                                                                                                          POINT OF BEGINNING
                                                                                                                         MAIN STREET
                                                                                                                                          (PUBLIC STREET)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 STATE STREET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (UDOT CONTROLLED)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LOT 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  282,420 sq.ft.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             356.70'
                                                                                                                                                                                     10' PUBLIC UTILITY EASEMENT                                                                                   6.483 acres




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4658.34'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3390 SOUTH STATE STREET
                                                                                                                                                       355.31'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S 0°00'45" E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         BASIS OF BEARING S 0°00'45" E
                                                                                                                                                       N 0°01'31" W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Easement Note:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                10' PUBLIC UTILITY EASEMENT                                                                                                                                      1. Easement in favor of Mountain States Telephone and Telegraph Company,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    recorded September 12, 1956, as Entry No. 150181, in Book 1345 at Page 428, of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Official Records. (Blanket in nature)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        UTILITY EASEMENT IN FAVOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                UTILITY EASEMENT IN FAVOR OF                                                                                                                            OF ROCKY MOUNTAIN POWER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ROCKY MOUNTAIN POWER COMPANY                                                                                                                                 RECORDED MAY 31, 2011
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ENTRY NO. ______________                                                                                                                                      AS ENTRY NO. 11190675                  20.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IN BOOK ________ AT PAGE ________                                                                                                                         IN BOOK 9927 AT PAGE 9249
                                                                                                                                                                                         5" E                                                   (HATCHED)                                                                                                                                                       (APPROX. LOCATION)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OWNER'S DEDICATION
                                                                                                                                                                                   °12'5
                                                                                                                                                                               N 72 .13'                                                                                                          N 89°49'57" E    588.69'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Know all men by these presents that, the undersigned owner (s) of Chinatown Investment, Inc., a Utah corporation, the above described
                                                                                                                                                                                   40
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           tract of land to be hereafter known as
        LEGEND                                                                                                                                                               10.50'                                                                                                               S 89°49'57" W    581.88'                                                                                                                            S 26°27'51" W



                                       EXISTING STREET MONUMENT
                                                                                                                                                                             °19'1
                                                                                                                                                                         S 72 .02'
                                                                                                                                                                              42
                                                                                                                                                                                   3" W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     UTILITY EASEMENT IN FAVOR OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ROCKY MOUNTAIN POWER COMPANY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      11.19'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CHINATOWN MALL SUBDIVISION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EAST            ENTRY NO. ______________                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              does hereby certify to have caused this plat to be prepared and does hereby dedicate for the perpetual use of the public all public roads
                                                                                                                                                                      57.40'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     15.75'          IN BOOK ________ AT PAGE ________                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     and other areas shown on this plat as intended for public use. The undersigned owner(s) also hereby conveys to any and all public utility
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      NORTH                                   SOUTH (HATCHED)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      13.50'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      N 0°00'00" E




                                                                                                                                                                                                          10' PUBLIC UTILITY EASEMENT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      companies a perpetual, non-exclusive easement over the public utility easements shown on this plat, the same to be used for the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EAST    451.44'                                                   13.50'                                 23.50'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       installation, maintenance, and operation of utility lines and facilities. The undersigned owner(s) also hereby conveys any other easements
       ENSIGN ENG.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         as shown on this plat to the parties indicated and for the purposes shown hereon.
       LAND SURV.                      SET 5/8" REBAR AND CAP, OR NAIL                                         33.0'                    33.0'                                                                                    304.06'                                                                                          173.12'                                                                          190.14'                                      26.43'
                                       STAMPED "ENSIGN ENG. & LAND
                                       SURV." AT ALL LOT CORNERS. OFFSET                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     WEST           693.75'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        In witness whereof I / we have hereunto set our hand (s) this                 day of                                        A.D., 20       .
                                       PINS TO BE PLACE IN THE BACK OF
                                       CURB WHERE APPLICABLE, IN LIEU OF
                                       REBAR AND CAP AT FRONT CORNERS.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CHINA TOWN PLAZA, LLC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            16-30-353-013                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Chinatown Investment, Inc. a Utah corporation
                                      BOUNDARY LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Koon So, President
                                      SECTION LINE
                                      MONUMENT LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         STREET MONUMENT
                                      EASEMENT LINE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      STATE STREET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         & 3900 SOUTH STREET
                                      ADJOINING BOUNDARY LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (FOUND 2" BRASS CAP)
                                      ADJOINING RIGHT-OF-WAY LINE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          STORMWATER LANGUAGE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Owner hereby conveys to South Salt Lake City and its agents a non-exclusive perpetual easement over, on and in Lot 1 for the purposes
Dominion Energy Utah - Note:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               of access to the private stormwater management system(s) for the management, inspection, maintenance and repair thereof.
Questar Gas Company, dba Dominion Energy Utah, hereby approves this plat solely
for the purposes of confirming that the plat contains public utility easements. Dominion
Energy Utah may require additional easements in order to serve this development.
This approval does not constitute abrogation or waiver of any other existing rights,
obligations or liabilities including prescriptive rights and other rights, obligations or
liabilities provided by law or equity. This approval does not constitute acceptance,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CORPORATE ACKNOWLEDGMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           STATE OF UTAH                }S.S.
approval or acknowledgment of any terms contained in the plat, including those set in
the Owners Dedication or in the Notes, and does not constitute a guarantee of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              County of Salt Lake
particular terms or conditions of natural gas service. For further information please                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      On the            day of                                A.D., 20                  , personally appeared before me
contact Dominion Energy Utah's Right-of-Way Department at 800-366-8532.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     , the signer of the foregoing instrument, who duly acknowledged to me that
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           he/she is the                                                  , of                                                                                    ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     HORIZONTAL GRAPHIC SCALE                                              a Utah Corporation, and is authorized to execute the foregoing Agreement in its behalf and that he/she executed it in such capacity.
ROCKY MOUNTAIN POWER NOTES:
1. PURSUANT TO UTAH CODE ANN. § 54-3-27 THIS PLAT CONVEYS TO THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      50                            0          25        50                          100
   OWNER(S) OR OPERATORS OF UTILITY FACILITIES A PUBLIC UTILITY
                                                                                                                 DEVELOPER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MY COMMISSION EXPIRES:                                                                 ,
   EASEMENT ALONG WITH ALL THE RIGHTS AND DUTIES DESCRIBED                                                       ANDREW SO
   THEREIN.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ( IN FEET )
2. PURSUANT TO UTAH CODE ANN. § 17-27A-603(4)(C)(II) ROCKY MOUNTAIN
                                                                                                            3575 SOUTH 1950 WEST                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    HORZ: 1 inch = 50 ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         RESIDING IN                                              COUNTY.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NOTARY PUBLIC
   POWER ACCEPTS DELIVERY OF THE PUE AS DESCRIBED IN THIS PLAT                                            WEST VALLEY CITY, UTAH 84119
   AND APPROVES THIS PLAT SOLELY FOR THE PURPOSE OF CONFIRMING
   THAT THE PLAT CONTAINS PUBLIC UTILITY EASEMENTS AND
                                                                                                                 801-809-3229
   APPROXIMATES THE LOCATION OF THE PUBLIC UTILITY EASEMENTS, BUT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SHEET 1 OF 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CENTURY LINK                                   SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY FIRE MARSHAL                                                                                         MT. OLYMPUS IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT
   DOES NOT WARRANT THEIR PRECISE LOCATION. ROCKY MOUNTAIN
   POWER MAY REQUIRE OTHER EASEMENTS IN ORDER TO SERVE THIS
   DEVELOPMENT. THIS APPROVAL DOES NOT AFFECT ANY RIGHT THAT
   ROCKY MOUNTAIN POWER HAS UNDER:                                                                              RECORD OF SURVEY                                                                APPROVED THIS         DAY OF                            ,          APPROVED THIS          DAY OF                              ,             APPROVED THIS         DAY OF                       ,                             APPROVED THIS          DAY OF                                       , 20                                ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SANDY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                45 W 10000 S, Suite 500
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LAYTON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Phone: 801.547.1100
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TOOELE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Phone: 435.843.3590
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PROJECT NUMBER :

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               MANAGER :            PMH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              10600
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CHINATOWN MALL SUBDIVISION
    2.1. A RECORDED EASEMENT OR RIGHT-OF WAY                                                                                                                                                    20      , BY CENTURY LINK.                                         20       , BY THE SOUTH SALT LAKE PLANNING                               20      , BY THE SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY FIRE MARSHAL.                              BY THE MT. OLYMPUS IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT.                                                                                                                           Sandy, UT 84070               CEDAR CITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    AMENDING AND EXTENDING ALL OF CHINATOWN CONDOMINIUM PROJECT
    2.2. THE LAW APPLICABLE TO PRESCRIPTIVE RIGHTS                                                            ROS NO.:                                                                                                                                             COMMISSION.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Phone: 801.255.0529           Phone: 435.865.1453
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               DRAWN BY :           SJL
    2.3. TITLE 54, CHAPTER 8A, DAMAGE TO UNDERGROUND UTILITY                                                                 S-2023-01-0026                                            .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      RICHFIELD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LOCATED IN BLOCK 16, 10 ACRE PLAT "A", BIG FIELD SURVEY IN THE SOUTHWEST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                WWW.ENSIGNENG.COM                                              CHECKED BY :           PMH
         FACILITIES OR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Phone: 435.896.2983
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                QUARTER OF SECTION 30, TOWNSHIP 1 SOUTH, RANGE 1 EAST, SALT LAKE BASE &
    2.4. ANY OTHER PROVISION OF LAW.                                                                          _______________________ _______                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DATE : 2023-2-22
                                                                                                                                                                                           CENTURY LINK                                       DATE             SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY PLANNING DIRECTOR                DATE                       SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY FIRE MARSHAL                                            MT. OLYMPUS IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            MERIDIAN SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH
                                                                                                              COUNTY SURVEYOR REVIEWER                                             DATE
                             EASEMENT APPROVAL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SALT LAKE COUNTY RECORDER
                                                                                                      SALT LAKE COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT                                                                           SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT                                                  SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY ENGINEER                                                          JORDAN VALLEY WATER CONSERVANCY DISTRICT                                                                                      APPROVAL AS TO FORM                                                                    SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY APPROVAL                                                               RECORDED #

     CENTURYLINK                                                  DATE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 STATE OF UTAH, COUNTY OF SALT LAKE, RECORDED AND FILED AT THE
                                                                                                     APPROVED THIS          DAY OF                                                                  ,         APPROVED THIS          DAY OF                    , 20              ,             I HEREBY CERTIFY THAT I HAVE HAD THIS PLAT EXAMINED BY THIS                                          APPROVED THIS         DAY OF                     , 20                ,                  APPROVED AS TO FORM THIS        DAY OF                                                                 ,      PRESENTED TO SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY THIS                            DAY OF
                                                                                                     20      , BY THE SALT LAKE COUNTY HEALTH                                                                 BY THE SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT.                               OFFICE AND IT IS CORRECT IN ACCORDANCE WITH INFORMATION ON FILE.                                     BY THE JORDAN VALLEY WATER CONSERVANCY DISTRICT.                                        20    , BY THE SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY ATTORNEY.                                                                 , 20 , AND IS HEREBY APPROVED.                                                                               REQUEST OF :
     ROCKY MOUNTAIN POWER                                         DATE                               DEPARTMENT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DATE:                                 TIME:                                    BOOK:                              PAGE:
     DOMINION ENERGY UTAH                                         DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY MAYOR                                 ATTEST: CITY RECORDER                                    FEE$                                         DEPUTY SALT LAKE COUNTY RECORDER
     COMCAST                                                      DATE                                    SALT LAKE COUNTY HEALTH DEPT.                                                                      SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT                 DATE                   CITY ENGINEER                                                         DATE                           JORDAN VALLEY WATER CONSERVANCY DISTRICT DIRECTOR                                                                                SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY ATTORNEY
