                                     South Salt Lake City Council
                                      REGULAR MEETING AGENDA

  Public notice is hereby given that the South Salt Lake City Council will hold a Regular Meeting on
  Wednesday, October 11, 2023, in the City Council Chambers, 220 East Morris Avenue, Suite 200,
  commencing at 7:00 p.m., or as soon thereafter as possible.

  To watch the meeting live click the link below to join:
  https://zoom.us/j/93438486912

  Watch recorded City Council meetings at youtube.com/@SouthSaltLakeCity

  Conducting                                                            Clarissa Williams, At-Large
  Council Chair                                                         Sharla Bynum, District 3
  Sergeant at Arms                                                      South Salt Lake PD

Opening Ceremonies
      1. Welcome/Introductions                                          Clarissa Williams, At-Large
      2. Serious Moment of Reflection/ Pledge of Allegiance             Corey Thomas, District 2

Approval of Minutes
      September 27th, Work Meeting
      September 27th, Regular Meeting

No Action Comments
      1. Scheduling                                                   City Recorder
      2. Public Comments/Questions
              a. Response to Comments/Questions
                 (at the discretion of the conducting Council Member)
      3. Mayor Comments
      4. City Attorney Comments
      5. City Council Comments
      6. Information
           a. October – $0 cat adoptions, pending                     Julie Taylor
               adoption application approval.

Action Items

Unfinished Business

      1. An Ordinance of the South Salt Lake City Council               Eliza Ungricht
         Amending Chapter 17.06 of the South Salt Lake City
         Municipal Code to Correct Technical Errors and Amend
         Certain General Landscaping Design Standards.

      2. A Resolution of the South Salt Lake City Council             Anthony Biamont
         Renaming the City Owned Park Located at 3116 South
         500 East from the Millcreek Trailhead Park to Kaleidoscope Park.




See page two for continuation of Agenda
South Salt Lake City Council Regular Meeting                          October 11, 2023 Page 2


Motion for Closed Meeting

Adjourn

Posted October 6, 2023

Those needing auxiliary communicative aids or other services for this meeting should contact
Ariel Andrus at 801-483-6019, giving at least 24 hours’ notice.

In accordance with State Statute and Council Policy, one or more Council Members may be connected
electronically.

                                    Public Comments/Question Policy
Time is made available for anyone in the audience to address the Council and/or Mayor concerning
matters pertaining to City business. When a member of the audience addresses the Council and/or
Mayor, they will come to the podium and state their name and City they reside. The Public will be asked
to limit their remarks/questions to three (3) minutes each. The conducting Council Member shall have
discretion as to who will respond to a comment/question. In all cases the criteria for response will be
that comments/questions must be pertinent to City business, that there are no argumentative questions
and no personal attacks. Some comments/questions may have to wait for a response until the next
regular council meeting. The conducting Council Member will inform a citizen when they have used the
allotted time. Grievances by City employees must be processed in accordance with adopted personnel
rules.

Have a question or concern? Call the connect line 801-464-6757 or email connect@sslc.gov
                                     ORDINANCE NO. 2023‐


AN ORDINANCE OF THE SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL AMENDING CHAPTER 17.06 OF THE SOUTH
SALT LAKE CITY MUNICIPAL CODE TO CORRECT TECHNICAL ERRORS AND AMEND CERTAIN GENERAL
LANDSCAPING DESIGN STANDARDS.

        WHEREAS, the South Salt Lake City Council (the “City Council”) is authorized by law to enact
ordinances for the health, safety, and welfare of the City of South Salt Lake (the “City”);.
         WHEREAS, the City Council is authorized by law to enact, amend, and repeal ordinances
regulating land use and development within the City;
         WHEREAS, City staff identified Chapter 17.06 in the South Salt Lake City Municipal Code where
certain technical corrections needed to be resolved and where other amendments were proposed for the
benefit of the City’s land use regulations;
         WHEREAS, on September 21, 2023, the Planning Commission held a public hearing, pursuant
to Utah Code §§ 10-9a-502 and 503 and South Salt Lake City Municipal Code Section 17.11.060, where
the public had notice and an opportunity to comment on the proposed amendments to the sections of the
City’s land use regulations;
         WHEREAS, the Planning Commission, at the public hearing, found that the proposed
amendments were consistent with the goals and objectives of the City’s general plan and in the best
interests of the City and forwarded a recommendation of approval to the City Council; and
        WHEREAS, the City Council finds that a diversity of land uses is beneficial to the City, its
residents, business members and visitors; and
       WHEREAS, the City Council hereby determines that the amendments to Chapter 17.06 of the
South Salt Lake City Municipal Code are in line with the City’s interests in promoting prosperity, economic
and orderly growth and improving the comfort, convenience and aesthetics of the City.

NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the City Council of the City of South Salt Lake as follows:
        SECTION I. Enactment. Chapter 17.06, of the South Salt Lake Municipal Code is hereby amended
and attached hereto, and incorporated by reference in “Exhibit A”.

         SECTION II. Severability. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of this
ordinance is, for any reason, held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, such
provision shall be deemed a separate, distinct, and independent provision, and such holding shall not affect
the validity of the remaining portions of this ordinance.

        SECTION III. Conflict with Existing Ordinances, Resolutions, or Policies. To the extent that
any ordinances, resolutions, or policies of the City of South Salt Lake conflict with the provisions of this
ordinance, this ordinance shall prevail.

         SECTION IV. Effective Date. This ordinance shall become effective upon Mayor’s signature and
publication, or after fifteen days of transmission to the office of the Mayor if neither approved nor
disapproved by the Mayor, and thereafter, publication.




                                                     1
 DATED this            day of _________ 2023.
                                                BY THE CITY COUNCIL:


                                                Sharla Bynum, Council Chair


ATTEST:



 Ariel Andrus, City Recorder




 City Council Vote as Recorded:

          Bynum

          Huff
          Mila
          Pinkney
          Siwik
          Thomas
          Williams


Transmitted to the Mayor’s office on this        day of                       2023.



          Ariel Andrus, City Recorder


MAYOR’S ACTION:




          Dated this              day of                           , 2023.




                                                  Cherie Wood, Mayor
ATTEST:



 Ariel Andrus, City Recorder


                                                    2
                          Chapter 17.06 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS

                                       ARTICLE III. LANDSCAPING

17.06.300 Landscaping.
A.   Purpose. The purpose of this Chapter is to outline Landscaping requirements that establish minimum
     standards to:
     1.    Improve the City's image and identity;
     2.    Increase the Compatibility of adjacent Uses and minimize the harmful impacts of noise, dust, debris,
           and light pollution;
     3.    Enhance the visual appearance of Streetscapes;
     4.    Encourage innovation and design;
     5.    Establish opportunities for sustainable storm water management;
     6.    Encourage water conservation;
     7.    Support a diversity of plants suited to local conditions; and
     8.    Sustain and improve the City's urban forest.
B.   Applicability. This Chapter applies to all new Development and Structure additions.
     1.    Wherever Landscaped Areas are required by this Chapter, a Landscape Plan shall be submitted to the
           City.
     2.    A Landscape Plan is required for any Application for a Building Permit or certificate of occupancy. A
           Building Permit will not be issued without submission and City approval of a Landscape Plan.
     3.    The Landscaped Areas as required by this Section shall be installed on property where Landscaped
           Areas are not in place or are non-conforming when:
           a.    New construction occurs on undeveloped, vacant, or cleared property.
           b.    A Conditional Use permit is issued, or a change of Use occurs. The land use authority shall make
                 installation of Landscaping a condition of approval.
           c.    A Building Permit is issued for any addition, expansion, or intensification of any property other
                 than an existing Single-Family home that increases the Floor Area of a Building and/or the parking
                 requirement by 50 percent or more.
           d.    A Building Permit is issued for any addition to a Single-Family residence that increases the Floor
                 Area of the residence by 75 percent or more. This standard does not apply to expansion or
                 addition of accessory Buildings on residential properties.
           e.    A change of Use occurs.
           f.    A Parking Area is expanded by 15 percent, or a minimum of seven stalls.
           g.    An existing property is re-landscaped.
     Public parks, recreation facilities, and open spaces in any district are exempt from the provisions of this
     Chapter.
C.   Modification. Existing Structures shall comply with the standards contained in this Chapter, to the maximum
     extent possible.


                                                          1
D.   General Landscape Requirements.
     1.   At a minimum, Landscaping is required in all Yard areas, along the perimeter of Parking Areas, in front
          of Buildings, and in the Front Setback of any improved property not used for parking, driveways,
          walkways, or approved display areas.
     2.   General Design Standards.
          a.   Landscape Plans shall be prepared and approved based on design standards in this Chapter and
               other applicable City requirements.
          b.   Tree and Shrub Requirements.
                i.     Not less than 75 percent of the trees specified on the Landscape Plan shall be water
                       conserving species.
                ii.    Deciduous and ornamental trees shall have a minimum two-inch caliper trunk size at the
                       time of installation.
                iii.   Evergreen trees shall have a minimum height of six feet at the time of installation.
                       Evergreens shall be incorporated into a Site where a Buffer is required between adjacent
                       Uses or busy roadways.
                iv.    Shrubs shall have a minimum height or spread of 18 inches at the time of installation,
                       depending on the plant's natural growth habit (after two years of growth). Plants in five-
                       gallon containers will generally comply with this standard.
                v.     Existing trees that are non-invasive and not noxious and that are preserved and
                       incorporated into the Landscape Plan shall be credited toward the minimum number of
                       trees required by this Chapter. Trees must be in healthy condition and free of injury to
                       receive this credit. Any credited tree that is not preserved or is significantly damaged
                       during construction shall be removed and replaced with four trees, each with a minimum
                       caliper of four inches. Tree replacement shall conform to the tree and shrub requirements.
          c.   Plant and Turf Grass Requirements.
                i.     Annual and perennial plants shall be installed from transplants, and not seeded on site.
                ii.    Only water conserving varieties of Turf Grass shall be used in the City.
                iii.   No more than 35% of the front and side yard landscaped area in any new single-family
                       residential development may be Turf Grass.
                iv.    No more than 20% of the front and side yard landscaped area in any new townhome,
                       multi-family residential, commercial, or flex development may be Turf Grass.
                iv.    No Turf Grass is permitted in the total Landscaped Area in any new townhome, multi-
                       family residential, commercial or flex development, outside of active recreation zones.
                v.     No Turf Grass is permitted on Park Strips or areas less than eight feet in width in new
                       development.
                vi.    Turf Grass may be seeded on site, but the seeded area must be 100% covered with Turf
                       Grass within one year.
                vii.   Live Plant Material shall comprise at least 75% of the total Landscaped Area for all
                       properties.
          d.   Mulch and Decorative Rock Requirements.
                i.     Landscaped Areas may include mulch and decorative rock in accordance with Park Strip
                       requirements and specific Use requirements specified in this Chapter.


                                                         2
               ii.    If ornamental gravel is utilized, it must be contained within durable borders or edging.
               iii.   At least 3-4 inches of mulch, permeable to air and water, shall be used in planting areas to
                      control weeds and improve the appearance of the landscaping.
          e.   Swales and Detention or Retention Basins.
               i.     Swales and detention or retention basins required for storm water management shall be
                      landscaped with suitable trees, shrubs, groundcover, perennials, or other Landscaping
                      materials, and/or decorative paving. Swales may not be used in the Setbacks of Townhome
                      Developments.
               ii.    Live Plant Material shall cover at least 75% of the area of the swale or detention or
                      retention basin.
               iii.   Swales, detention and retention basins shall not be deeper that than 1.5 feet.
          f.   Berming is prohibited.
          g.   Irrigation. Permanent irrigation systems are required wherever Landscaping is required by this
               Chapter. Irrigation systems shall meet the standards below.
               i.     All irrigation shall be appropriate for the designated plant material to achieve the highest
                      water efficiency. Drip irrigation or bubblers shall be used except in Turf Grass areas. Drip
                      irrigation systems shall be equipped with a pressure regulator, filter, flush-end assembly,
                      and any other appropriate components.
               ii.    Each irrigation valve shall irrigate landscaping with similar site, slope, and soil conditions,
                      and plant materials with similar watering needs. Turf Grass and planting areas shall be
                      irrigated on separate irrigation valves. In addition, drip emitters and sprinklers shall be
                      placed on separate irrigation valves.
          h.   Clear View Requirements. All landscape elements are subject to the Clear View Area
               requirements.
E.   Landscape Plan Requirements.
     1.   Content of Landscape Plan. All Landscape Plans submitted for approval shall be drawn in accordance
          with the South Salt Lake Community Development Department's plan submittal requirements. The
          Landscape Plan shall include:
          a.   The location and dimensions of all existing and proposed Structures, Property Lines, easements,
               planting areas, Buffers, Parking Lots, driveways, roadways and Rights-of-Way, sidewalks, bicycle
               paths, freestanding signs, waste enclosures, bicycle parking areas, fences, walls, ground level
               utility equipment, recreational facilities, and any other freestanding Structure.
          b.   The location, spacing, quantity, size, and common and botanical names of all proposed plants.
          c.   The location, size, and common and botanical names of all existing trees and other plants on the
               property and in the Park Strip, either to be retained or removed.
          d.   Existing and proposed grading of the site at one-foot contour intervals including any proposed
               landscaped Berms.
          e.   Elevations for fences and retaining walls proposed for location on the site.
          f.   Elevations, cross sections, and other details as determined necessary by the land use authority.
          g.   The irrigation plan, drawn on a separate sheet.
          h.   Summary data indicating the area of the site in the following classifications:
               i.     Total area and percentage of the site in Landscaped Area.


                                                          3
             ii.    Total area and percentage of the site in Turf Grasses.
             iii.   Total area and percentage of the site in water-efficient plant species at mature growth.
             iv.    Total area and percentage of the site in planting area.
  2.   Landscape Maintenance Standards.
       a.    Responsibility. The property Owner shall be responsible for the maintenance, irrigation, repair
             and replacement of all plants, Turf Grass, trees, and Landscaping materials required in this
             Chapter. The property Owner shall also keep their property free of uncontrolled weed and
             volunteer plant growth.
       b.    Landscaping Materials. Landscaping shall be maintained in good condition in a healthy, neat, and
             orderly appearance. Plants and trees that are dead or dying shall be removed and replaced.
             Landscaped Areas shall be regularly irrigated, mowed and pruned as needed, be kept free of
             weeds, dead plants, garbage, and debris.
       c.    Pruning Required. Trees, hedges, shrubs, and plants near public sidewalks and roads shall be
             pruned and maintained so that the public Right-of-Way is unobstructed. Shade trees or other
             plantings that project over any sidewalk shall be maintained clear of all branches between the
             ground and a height of six (6) feet for that portion of the plant located over the sidewalk. Shade
             trees and plantings that project over any Street or access road shall be maintained free of any
             plant material extending over the Street to a height of 14 feet from the Grade of the Street or
             access road.
       d.    Irrigation Systems. Irrigation systems shall be maintained in good operating condition to promote
             the conservation of water.
  3.   Landscape Requirements for Park Strips.
  a.   Intent. The intent of the Park Strip Landscaping standards is to enhance the aesthetics of City Streets,
       to increase safety along roadways, to prohibit materials that may cause harm or injury to pedestrians
       and vehicles, to provide safe and convenient access across Park Strips to and from parking and
       pedestrian access, to allow access for repair and maintenance of public utilities, and to uphold Clear
       View Area requirements.
  b.   Applicability. Park Strip standards apply to all properties in the City, including vacant Lots that have
       curbs and/or gutters along Street Frontages. Owners of property on Streets that lack curb and gutter
       are not required to maintain formal Landscaping within the public Right-of-Way, unless new curb and
       gutter is required as new Development occurs.
  c.   Installation. All Park Strips shall be landscaped and continuously maintained by the abutting property
       Owner. For permits involving new construction or a change of Use, Park Strip Landscaping shall be
       shown on the required Landscape Plan.
  d.   Turf Grass is not permitted in Park Strips.
  e.   Park Strip Design Standards Table:
 Street       Park Strip     Paving       Inorganic            %      Planting      Min. Live     Street Trees
 Profile       Width        Materials     Materials        Allowed    Materials       Plant
                                                                                    Material
                                                                                    Coverage
  Urban       Less than                     Mulch,          100                       50%       Street trees not
 Corridor         3'                        gravel,                     Hardy                       allowed
(excluding                                stone, and                 groundcover*
Downtown                                   concrete



                                                       4
   and           3' to 5'                  Mulch,          100    Groundcover   50%     30' interval
Townhome                                 gravel, and
 Overlay)                                   stone                  Annual or             2" caliper
2100 South                                                         perennial             minimum
2700 South                                                           plants
3300 South     More than                   Mulch,          100    Groundcover   50%     30' interval
3900 South        5'                     gravel, and
 700 East                                   stone                  Annual or             2" caliper
 300 West                                                          perennial             minimum
Main Street                                                         plants
                                                                                        tree grates or
                                                                                       tree wells with
                                                                                          decorative
                                                                                           gravel are
                                                                                          required**
State Street         10'      Brick or    Concrete         100%                        Medium sized
  and City     landscape     Concrete                                                    Street trees
  Streets           zone                                                              spaced every 25
   within      measured                                                                   feet within
Townhome       from back                                                                     large,
Overlay and       of curb                                                                permanent,
Downtown          (trees,                                                              raised planters
  Districts        raised                                                              or within well-
                planters,                                                                  designed
               pedestrian                                                                  concrete
                oriented                                                                cutouts, with
                   street                                                             permanent tree
                 lighting,                                                                  grates.
                   street
               furniture)
  Other         Less than                Concrete,         100%   Groundcover   50%   Street trees not
Residential           2'                   gravel,                                      encouraged.
                                         stone, and                Annual or
                                           mulch                   perennial
                                                                     plants
                 2' to 3'                  Gravel,         100%   Groundcover   50%   Street trees not
                                         stone, and                                     encouraged.
                                           mulch                   Annual or
                                                                   perennial
                                                                     plants
               More than                   Gravel,         100%   Groundcover   50%     30' interval
                  3'                     stone, and
                                           mulch                   Annual or             2" caliper
                                                                   perennial             minimum
                                                                     plants
Commercial     Less than                   Gravel,         100%   Groundcover   50%   Street trees not
    or             2'         Pavers -   stone, and                                     encouraged
   Flex                        brick,      mulch                   Annual or
                             stone, or                             perennial
                             concrete                               plants




                                                       5
                            2' to 3'                               Gravel,              100%          Groundcover    50%   Street trees not
                                               Pavers -          stone, and                                                  encouraged
                                                brick,             mulch                               Annual or
                                              stone, or                                                perennial
                                              concrete                                                   plants
                          More than                                Gravel,              100%          Groundcover    50%     30' interval
                             3'                                  stone, and
                                                                   mulch                                Annual or             2" caliper
                                                                                                        perennial             minimum
                                                                                                         plants
                                                                                                                            tree grates or
                                                                                                                           tree wells with
                                                                                                                              decorative
                                                                                                                               gravel are
                                                                                                                              required**


* Hardy groundcover may be any type of groundcover that is capable of withstanding snow and heat.

** Tree grates or tree wells shall be a minimum of five feet in radius measured from the center of the tree trunk.

F.      Landscape Requirements Along Urban Corridor Streets.
        1.      Applicability. The Landscaping standards in this Section shall be required for all properties with
                Frontage along State Street, 2100 South, 3300 South, 3900 South, 900 West, 300 West, 700 East, and
                Main Street.
        2.      Design Standards: 2100 South, 3300 South, 3900 South, 900 West, 300 West, 700 East, and Main Street
                (excluding Downtown and Townhome Overlay District).
                a.       Area. Installation of a minimum of 15 feet of Landscaping along the entire length of the property
                         between the back of the sidewalk along the urban corridor Street and any fence, Parking Area, or
                         Structure on the Site is required.
                b.       Prohibited Uses and Activities. Parking, display, sales, storage, Structures, or temporary signage
                         are not allowed in the Landscaped Areas.
                c.       Approved access driveways and walkways are allowed to cross the landscape area.
                d.       Outdoor seating areas up to 300 square feet in area for Restaurants and similar public Uses are
                         allowed in the landscape areas.
                e.       Live plant material coverage of at least 75%.
                f.       A minimum of one tree is required for every 1,000 square feet of Landscaped Area.
        3.      Design Standards: State Street, Downtown, and Townhome Overlay Urban Landscape Area.
                a.       Area. Installation of a minimum width of 15 feet of concrete sidewalk and street landscaping
                         (measured from back of curb) along the entire length of the property between the back of the
                         curb along dedicated Streets to any fence, Parking Area, or Structure on the Site is required.
                b.       Prohibited Uses and Activities. Parking, display, sales, storage, Structures (other than required
                         raised planters), or temporary signage are not allowed in the Landscaped Areas.
                c.       Approved Local Access Roads and walkways are allowed to cross the urban landscape area.
G.      Landscape Requirements for Parking Lots.




                                                                                  6
1.   Intent. Landscaping is required for Parking Areas in order to break up large expanses of pavement, to
     provide relief from reflected glare and heat, to guide vehicular and pedestrian traffic, and to efficiently
     and sustainably retain storm water.
2.   Applicability. All Hard-Surfaced Parking Areas, including those for vehicle sales, with 15 or more Parking
     Stalls shall provide Landscaping in accordance with the provisions of this Section. Smaller Parking Areas
     shall not be required to provide Landscaping other than Landscaping required for Park Strips, Buffers,
     and Front Yards.
3.   Parking Lot Landscaping Standards.
     a.    General Requirements.
           i.     Site Plan Required.
           ii.    All Landscaping shall meet Clear View Area requirements.
           iii.   Landscaped Areas shall be protected by concrete vertical curbs. Curbs shall be designed to
                  allow storm water to enter the Landscaped Area. Where such curbs serve as a wheel stop
                  for Parking Stalls, not less than 36 inches shall be provided in the planting area as overhang
                  clearance for tree locations.
           iv.    Pedestrian paths in Parking Lots, with the exception of crosswalks, shall be bordered by
                  landscaped Park Strips with a minimum width of three feet, in accordance with the
                  commercial or industrial Park Strip standards of this Chapter.
     b.    Interior Landscaping.
           i.     Area. No less than five percent (5%) of the interior of a Parking Area shall be devoted to
                  Landscaping.
           ii.    Interior Landscaping Design Standards.
                        a)    Driveway buffers shall be landscaped. The landscaping shall be a minimum of
                              eight feet in width, as measured from back of curb to back of curb and shall run
                              the length of the driveway.




                        b)    Surface Parking Lots containing 60 or more customer stalls shall have
                              landscaping islands every 15 stalls or median islands every two (2) rows. Shade
                              trees shall be provided at no less than one tree per ten Parking Stalls. Tree wells


                                                    7
                                   shall be a minimum of five feet in radius measured from the center of the tree
                                   trunk.
                iii.   Perimeter Landscaping. Where a Parking Lot is located within a required yard area or
                       within 20 feet of a Lot Line, perimeter Landscaping shall be required along the Lot Lines
                       that abuts a Public Right of Way or a Residential Use. Perimeter Landscaping shall meet the
                       widths below, as measured from the back of the Parking Lot curb. At least one tree shall be
                       planted for each 400 square feet of the landscaped Perimeter Landscaping shall be planted.
                              a)   Public Right of Way shall have eight feet (8’) of landscaping.
                              b)   A non-Single-Family Residential Use shall have eight feet (8’) of landscaping.
                              c)   A Single-Family Residential Use shall have ten feet (10’) of landscaping.
H.   Landscape Requirements for Buffers.
     1.   Intent. Buffers are used to mitigate the transition between Development types and incompatible Uses.
     2.   Applicability. All Buffers required by other sections in this Code shall be landscaped.
     3.   Buffer Design Standards. Landscape Buffers shall be reserved for planting and fencing. No parking,
          driveways, or Accessory Structure shall be permitted, unless specifically authorized through the Site
          Plan review process. Landscape Buffers may be located within required Setbacks. Where both
          landscape Buffers and Parking Lot Landscaping is required the more restrictive shall apply.
     4.   At least one tree shall be planted for each 400 square feet of the landscaped Buffer shall be planted.
I.   Specific Landscape Standards.
     1.   Design Standards.
          a.    Single-Family Buildings.
                i.     Front Yard and corner side yard Landscaped Areas required to be landscaped shall be
                       landscaped with suitable trees, shrubs, groundcovers, perennials, or other Landscaping
                       materials. Plants, not including tree canopies, shall cover at least 75% of the front and/or
                       corner side yard area at maturity. No more than 35% of the front and side yard landscaped
                       area in new single-family residential development may be Turf Grass.
                ii.    Each Front Yard shall contain at least two (2) trees.
                iii.   Water features, landscape boulders, decorative rocks, gravel, and organic mulch are
                       permitted but shall not be considered a substitute for plants.
          b.    Multi-Family Developments.
                i.     Landscaped Areas. Yards, Setbacks, Park Strips, required Buffers, required open space, and
                       Parking Areas shall be landscaped as required in this Chapter. Landscaping shall be used to
                       screen ground level utility equipment from view of Streets, sidewalks, or walkways to the
                       greatest extent possible. No more than 20% of the front and side yard landscaped area in
                       new multi-family residential development may be Turf Grass. No Turf Grass is permitted in
                       the total Landscaped Area in any new multi-family residential development, outside of
                       active recreation zones.
                ii.    Plant Coverage. All required Landscaped Areas shall be landscaped with suitable trees,
                       shrubs, groundcovers, perennials, or other Landscaping materials. Plants, not including tree
                       canopies, shall cover at least 75% of required Landscaped Areas.
                iii.   Site Trees. A minimum of two (2) trees per 1,000 square feet of Landscaped Area is
                       required, in addition to requirements for Yards, Setbacks, Park Strips, required Buffers, and
                       Parking Areas described in this Chapter.


                                                         8
     iv.    Water features, landscape boulders, decorative rocks, gravel, and organic mulch are
            permitted but shall not be considered a substitute for plants.
     v.     If ornamental gravel is utilized, it must be contained within durable borders or landscaped
            edging.
c.   Townhome Developments.
     i.     Landscaped Areas. Yards, Setbacks, Park Strips, required Buffers, required Common Open
            Space, Usable Open Space, and Parking Areas shall be landscaped as required in this
            Chapter. Landscaping shall be used to screen ground level utility equipment from view of
            Streets, sidewalks, or walkways to the greatest extent possible. No more than 20% of the
            front and side yard landscaped area in new townhome residential development may be
            Turf Grass. No Turf Grass is permitted in the total Landscaped Area in any new townhome
            development, outside of active recreation zones.


     ii.    Plant Coverage. All required Landscaped Areas shall be landscaped with suitable trees,
            shrubs, groundcovers, perennials, or other Landscaping materials. Plants, not including tree
            canopies, shall cover at least 75% of required Landscaped Areas.
     iii.   Site Trees. Trees are required every 20 feet in all Setback and Buffer areas, both sides of
            the Local Access street, in addition to requirements for Yards, Open Space, and Parking
            Areas described in this Chapter.
d.   Commercial and Flex.
     i.     Landscaped Areas. Landscaped Areas shall comprise not less than 15 percent of a
            commercial or professional office site. Landscape requirements for Buffers, Parking Areas,
            Park Strips, and additional Landscaping along urban corridor Streets as required in this
            Chapter may be included as part of the overall site requirement. Landscaping shall be used
            to screen ground level utility equipment from view of Streets, sidewalks, or walkways to
            the greatest extent possible. No more than 20% of the front and side yard landscaped area
            in new commercial and flex development may be Turf Grass. No Turf Grass is permitted in
            the total Landscaped Area in any new commercial or flex development, outside of active
            recreation zones.
     ii.    Plant Coverage. All required Landscaped Areas shall be landscaped with suitable trees,
            shrubs, groundcovers, perennials, or other Landscaping materials. Live plants, not including
            tree canopies, shall cover at least 75% of required Landscaped Areas.
     iii.   Site Trees. A minimum of two (2) trees per 1,000 square feet of Landscaped Area is
            required, in addition to requirements for Yards, Setbacks, Park Strips, required Buffers, and
            Parking Areas described in this Chapter.
     iv.    Water features, landscape boulders, decorative rocks, gravel, and organic mulch are
            permitted but shall not be considered a substitute for plants. Landscape boulders shall only
            be allowed as a focal feature or may be used as a protective device from vehicle traffic.
     v.     If ornamental gravel is utilized, it must be contained within durable borders and arranged
            in a decorative pattern that incorporates varying sizes, types, or colors of gravel.




                                              9
                                       RESOLUTION NO. 2023-_____

A RESOLUTION OF THE SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL RENAMING THE CITY OWNED PARK LOCATED AT
       3116 SOUTH 500 EAST FROM THE MILLCREEK TRAILHEAD PARK TO KALEIDOSCOPE PARK

       WHEREAS, the South Salt Lake City Council (the “City Council”) is authorized to enact and amend
ordinances governing the City of South Salt Lake (the “City”); and

       WHEREAS, the City Council’s duties include the naming of major assets, defined by Section
2.71.010 of the City Code; and

       WHEREAS, City staff have proposed renaming Millcreek Trailhead Park, located at 3116 South
and 500 East, to Kaleidoscope Park; and

          WHEREAS, when Millcreek Trailhead Park was originally named, it was with the goal of creating
a trail connection to Mill Creek Trail in Fitts Park for the enjoyment of residents, but several factors have
since made creating a trailhead impractical; and

        WHEREAS, Millcreek Trailhead Park is now designed to provide a butterfly and pollinator
habitat, including a designated monarch butterfly way station;

        WHEREAS, a flock of butterflies is known as a “kaleidoscope” and the name Kaleidoscope Park
better reflects the design of the park and eliminates confusion for the public about the lack of a trail;

        WHEREAS, the name “Kaleidoscope Park” is appropriate for a number of factors described in
City Code, including the fact that there is no historical significance to the name “Millcreek Trailhead
Park,” a name change would have no impact on any existing organizations, and the cost of changing the
name is minimal; and

       WHEREAS, City Code section 2.71.020 requires that the City Council have a public meeting with
opportunity for public comment when naming a major asset, and that public meeting took place on
Wednesday, September 27, 2023; and

        WHEREAS, the City Council determines that, in consideration of public comment and taking into
consideration the factors outlined in City Code Sections 2.71.030 through 2.71.070, the new name of the
Millcreek Trailhead Park shall be Kaleidoscope Park.

        NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the City Council of the City of South Salt Lake that the
city owned park currently known as Millcreek Trailhead Park shall be renamed and shall be called
Kaleidoscope Park.

        BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the South Salt Lake City Council hereby directs City staff to take
any action necessary to effectuate the name change to Kaleidoscope Park, including creating
new signage if necessary.




                                                  Page 1 of 2
APPROVED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of South Salt Lake, Utah on this ______ day of
__________, 2023.

                                              BY THE CITY COUNCIL:

                                              ____________________________________
                                              Sharla Bynum, Council Chair

ATTEST:

____________________________________
Ariel Andrus, City Recorder



City Council Vote as Recorded:

          Huff         ______
          Thomas       ______
          Bynum        ______
          Mila         ______
          Siwik        ______
          Pinkney      ______
          Williams     ______




                                             Page 2 of 2
