                                     South Salt Lake City Council
                                      REGULAR MEETING AGENDA

  Public notice is hereby given that the South Salt Lake City Council will hold a Regular Meeting on
  Wednesday, October 25, 2023, in the City Council Chambers, 220 East Morris Avenue, Suite 200,
  commencing at 7:00 p.m., or as soon thereafter as possible.

  To watch the meeting live click the link below to join:
  https://zoom.us/j/93438486912

  Watch recorded City Council meetings at: youtube.com/@SouthSaltLakeCity

  Conducting                                                            Clarissa Williams, At-Large
  Council Chair                                                         Sharla Bynum, District 3
  Sergeant at Arms                                                      Carson Aprato

Opening Ceremonies
      1. Welcome/Introductions                                          Clarissa Williams
      2. Serious Moment of Reflection/ Pledge of Allegiance             Portia Mila

No Action Comments
      1. Scheduling                                                   City Recorder
      2. Public Comments/Questions
              a. Response to Comments/Questions
                 (at the discretion of the conducting Council Member)
      3. Mayor Comments
      4. City Attorney Comments
      5. City Council Comments
      6. Information
           a. Annual Stormwater Report                                Corby Talbot

Action Items

Appointments by the Mayor

       Tara Shupe – Regular Civilian Review Board Member                Mayor Wood

Unfinished Business

      1. An Ordinance of the South Salt Lake City Council               Alex Halleck
         to Amend the South Salt Lake Zoning Map for Property
         Located at 50 East 2100 South from Commercial Corridor
         (CC) to Crossing Master Planned Mixed Use (MPMU).

      2. An Ordinance of the South Salt Lake City Council               Alex Halleck
         Amending Chapters 17.03 and 17.06 of the South
         Salt Lake City Municipal Code to Amend Development
         Standards for Sidewalks and Landscape Setbacks in the
         Crossing MPMU District.



See page two for continuation of Agenda
South Salt Lake City Council Regular Meeting                      October 25, 2023 Page 2


      3. Selection to Fill Vacant Council District 5 Seat              Sharla Bynum


Public Hearing – 7:30 (Or As Soon Thereafter As Possible)
To receive public input regarding proposed amendments to all 2023/2024 fund budgets
        1. Crystal Makin, for the City, to present information and answer questions
        2. Open Public Hearing
        3. Receive Public input
        4. Close Public Hearing
        5. Discussion by the City Council
        6. At Conclusion of Discussion by the Council, Motion and Second by Council
                a. To move action until a future specified meeting date;
                b. To take it to a Work Meeting for further discussion; or
                c. To take final action on the matter by adopting the Budget Amendment by Resolution


Motion for Closed Meeting

Adjourn


Posted October 20, 2023


Those needing auxiliary communicative aids or other services for this meeting should contact
Ariel Andrus at 801-483-6019, giving at least 24 hours’ notice.

In accordance with State Statute and Council Policy, one or more Council Members may be connected
electronically.

                                    Public Comments/Question Policy
Time is made available for anyone in the audience to address the Council and/or Mayor concerning
matters pertaining to City business. When a member of the audience addresses the Council and/or
Mayor, they will come to the podium and state their name and City they reside. The Public will be asked
to limit their remarks/questions to three (3) minutes each. The conducting Council Member shall have
discretion as to who will respond to a comment/question. In all cases the criteria for response will be
that comments/questions must be pertinent to City business, that there are no argumentative questions
and no personal attacks. Some comments/questions may have to wait for a response until the next
regular council meeting. The conducting Council Member will inform a citizen when they have used the
allotted time. Grievances by City employees must be processed in accordance with adopted personnel
rules.

Have a question or concern? Call the connect line 801-464-6757 or email connect@sslc.gov
Annual Report

Stormwater Utility
South Salt Lake City
10/16/2023
Corby Talbot
Stormwater Utility




Stormwater Division
The Stormwater Division is responsible for the safe and efficient
collection, transport, and discharge of stormwater in and around South
Salt Lake City. Our work protects the health and safety of our
community, as well as our infrastructure and environment. We also
ensure that South Salt Lake remains in compliance with local, state and
federal stormwater standards.




                                    2
Stormwater Utility

What We Do
The Stormwater Division's primary responsibility is routing stormwater to the
Jordan River. Our work prevents flooding, health issues and contamination of the
natural environment due to contaminated or polluted stormwater.

In addition, we are responsible for cleaning and maintaining our stormwater
system. This lengthens the lifespan of the entire system and prevents blockages
and flooding.

Our cleaning and maintenance include the following:

    o   Street Sweeping - This prevents debris from entering catch basins. City streets are
        swept up to five times a year.
    o   Grate Cleaning – Cleaned on an as-needed basis during or before rain events, or
        when the Division Manager is made aware of an issue.
    o   Cleaning Pipes/Catch Basins - Inspected regularly to assess the need for cleaning
        out the pipes and catch basins.
    o   Leaf bag program – Helps keep debris out of storm drains by providing free leaf
        bags to residents. Up to 5 leaf bags are provided per residential property. The city
        will pick up all leaf bags through October and November as a service to the
        residents of the city. Program guidelines can be found on the city website.
    o   Public education/participation – The City is a member of the Salt Lake County
        Stormwater Coalition which provides education to prevent stormwater pollution.
        The Stormwater Department participates in City events, mails informational flyers to
        businesses and residents, and provides information in the city newsletter.




                                              3
Stormwater Utility



Stormwater Facts
    •   Miles of pipe=51 (274,500 ln ft.)
    •   Stormwater drains=1600 (inspected 265 in 2022)
    •   Removed 110,000 pounds of debris from system.
    •   Detention basins private and public=140 (inspected 74)
    •   Outfall to river = 53 (inspected 49)
    •   Connections to other local government Storm Water Systems = 63
    •   3 Stormwater pump stations (2500 S 1000 W, 2900 S 900 W, 2880 S Blair St)
    •   Issued 3 Administrative Citations in 2022
    •   15 Illicit Discharges eliminated.
    •   17 Construction sites greater than 1 Acre (184/inspections)
    •   1 Division Manager
    •   3 Stormwater Technicians
    •   1 Utility Billing Technicians
    •   .5 Administrative Assistant




                                               4
Stormwater Utility



     “Get your mind in the
     GUTTER, let’s keep it
     clean”




          Because “WE ALL
      LIVE DOWN STREAM”

                     5
Stormwater Utility


Year in Review
Due to a record snowpack, the State of Utah and many counties and other
local governments went into flood preparation and planning mode this spring.
Your Stormwater Division led this planning and preparation effort. City staff
and volunteers filled over 30,000 sandbags and cleared thousands of pounds
trash and debris form Mill Creek and the Jordan River. City departments
came together and planned and prepared for worst case scenarios. Cameras
were installed for 24 hour surveillance of Mill Creek and other hot spots. The
Stormwater Division also conducted physical checks of the City around the
clock for about 2 months.
                                Utility Billing
                                We continue to work toward 100% billing and
                                expect to reach that goal in the next few
                                months. Currently, we have 150 stormwater
                                accounts with past due balances. The amount
                                past due is approximately $30,000. The
                                single largest past due account owes
                                approximately $14,000 and we are confident
                                that we will be able to collect on this
                                account. We are currently pursuing collection
                                action on delinquent accounts and hope to
                                have that number go down significantly in the
                                coming months. We are also working with
                                Business Licensing to ensure that businesses
                                that are not current on their utility payments
                                are not issued a business license until utilities
                                are paid in full. One major challenge is that
                                rental companies are not required to have a
                                business license.
                                Fund Balance
                                We were able to build our fund balance to
                                approximately $147,000 last year despite the
                                difficulty in establishing the stormwater fund
                                and setting up accounts for every parcel in the
                                city. This surplus is largely due to fiscal
                                conservatism and delaying capital projects
                                until sufficient cash flows are established.




                                        6
Stormwater Utility
Note from Utility Billing



We have approximately 6,800 parcels in South Salt Lake City. As you can see
by the picture of the stormwater map, the majority of the parcels are currently
being billed. The monthly base rate billed is $6.00 for a single-family home
(3,700 Sq.ft. = 1 ERU). Duplexes are billed $12.00 a month. Any parcel that
has three or more single family units is billed as a commercial lot.

Commercial lots are billed by the amount of impervious area that is on the
parcel; 3,700 sq.ft. = 1 ERU (Equivalent Residential Unit). This includes
Buildings, concrete, asphalt, etc., anything that is considered permanent.
Items such as shipping containers, vehicles, gravel, etc. are not considered
impervious area and are not factored into billing. To calculate the impervious
area of each parcel, we used GIS technology to identify any non-green space
and bill that as impervious area. The total square footage of the impervious
area is divided by 3,700 sq.ft., to determine the number of ERU’s. We then
multiply this number by the base rate of $6.00 per ERU to determine the
monthly stormwater fee.

Some of the problems we have encountered include:
  • Two parcels owned and occupied by the same person. We use our
    discretion and merge these two parcels into one bill and only bill one
    ERU, $6.00.
  • GIS sometimes reads gravel or non-permanent structures as impervious
    material. We either do a physical inspection of the property, or use the
    GIS's measuring tool to find the correct number of ERU’s.
  • HOA’s must be billed for all parcels in the HOA.
  • Some parcels are missing important information on county records.




                                       7
Stormwater Utility




Purple- missing info
Orange- not billing yet
Dark green block- HOA or multiple parcels w/one owner




                                    8
Stormwater Utility



Stormwater Financial Balance




                               9
                                     ORDINANCE NO. 2023‐



        AN ORDINANCE OF THE SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL TO AMEND THE
        SOUTH SALT LAKE ZONING MAP FOR PROPERTY LOCATED AT 50 EAST 2100
        SOUTH FROM COMMERCIAL CORRIDOR (CC) TO CROSSING MASTER PLANNED
        MIXED USE (MPMU).


WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of South Salt Lake (the “City Council”) is authorized by law to
enact ordinances establishing zoning districts and other regulations for land use; and
WHEREAS, on October 5, 2023, the South Salt Lake Planning Commission (the “Planning Commission”)
held a legally noticed public hearing to consider amending the South Salt Lake City Zoning Map for the
subject property, shown in Exhibit A, from Commercial Corridor (CC) to Crossing Master Planned Mixed
Use (MPMU); and
WHEREAS, the Planning Commission found that the proposed zoning amendment is consistent with the
goals and objectives of the South Salt Lake General Plan, and forwarded a recommendation to the City
Council to approve the amendment; and
WHEREAS, on October 11, 2023, and on October 25, 2023, the City Council discussed the proposed
zoning amendment and the Planning Commission’s recommendation; and
WHEREAS, the City Council finds the zoning amendment for the attached property is consistent with the
City’s General Plan and finds that the amendment is in the best interests of the City;

NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the City Council of the City of South Salt Lake that:

SECTION I. The South Salt Lake City Zoning Map for the property located at 50 EAST 2100 SOUTH
AVENUE is amended from Commercial Corridor (CC) to Crossing Master Planned Mixed Use (MPMU),
as shown in Exhibit A.

SECTION II. Effective Date. This ordinance shall become effective upon the Mayor’s signature and
publication, or after fifteen days of transmission to the office of the Mayor if neither approved nor
disapproved by the Mayor, and thereafter, publication.


(signatures appear on next page)
 DATED this           day of October 2023.
                                             BY THE CITY COUNCIL:


                                             Sharla Bynum, Council Chair
 ATTEST:




 Ariel Andrus, City Recorder


City Council Vote as Recorded:
         Bynum
           Huff
           Mila
           Pinkney
           Thomas
           Williams




 Transmitted to the Mayor’s office on this    day of                       2023.


         Ariel Andrus, City Recorder


 MAYOR’S ACTION:


           Dated this            day of                       , 2023.




                                               Cherie Wood, Mayor
 ATTEST:



 Ariel Andrus, City Recorder
                                     EXHIBIT A

The area outlined in red, currently zoned as Commercial Corridor (CC) will be amended to Crossing
Master Planned Mixed Use (MPMU) on the South Salt Lake Zoning Map as shown below:

Existing Zoning Map:




Amended Zoning Map:
                                    CITY COUNCIL STAFF REPORT

MEETING DATE:                 October 25, 2023
PROJECT NUMBERS:              2320039
REQUEST:                      A petition to amend the zoning map for one parcel from Commercial Corridor (CC) to
                              Crossing Mater Planned Mixed Use (MPMU).
ADDRESS:                      50 East 2100 South
PROPERTY OWNER:               SSLC Main Street Apts, LLC
APPLICANT:                    Cassie Ruiz
TYPE OF APPLICATION:           Legislative – Zone Change

STAFF RECOMMENDATION:
Staff recommends the City Council approve,
with conditions, the petition by Cassie Ruiz,
amend the zoning map for one parcel from
Commercial Corridor (CC) to Crossing MPMU.
Staff’s recommendation is based upon its
analysis and findings included below.

SYNOPSIS:
Cassie Ruiz, on behalf of In-N-Out Burger, is
petitioning South Salt Lake City to amend the
zoning map for one parcel from Commercial
Corridor to the Crossing MPMU. The parcel is
located at 50 East 2100 South. The subject
parcel currently contains a vacant fast-food
restaurant. In the Commercial Corridor land
use district fast-food restaurants are a
permitted use. If the petition is granted, the
applicant intends to consolidate via
subdivision plat the subject parcel with an
adjacent vacant parcel located at 28 East 2100 South to develop a larger site plan under one zone for a new In-
N-Out Burger. 28 East 2100 South is currently zoned Crossing MPMU, which permits fast-food restaurants.
Development sites must be located on a single parcel.

The entitlement process for this petition includes the following applications: 1) Petition for Vacation of Public
Easements; 2) Petition for an Ordinance Amendment and Rezone; 3) Application for Subdivision Plat; and 4)
Application for Building Permit.

The Planning Commission is the recommending body for all rezone petitions. The City Council is the final Land
Use Authority.

On October 5, 2023, the Planning Commission unanimously recommended approval to the City Council for a
petition to amend the zoning map for one parcel from Commercial Corridor (CC) to Crossing MPMU.

 EXISTING ZONING           EXISTING         SURROUNDING LAND USE DISTRICTS                   PROPOSED USES
                             USE
 Commercial Corridor      Vacant Fast-             North: Salt Lake City Zoning                  Fast-food
                             food                    South: Crossing MPMU                        Restaurant
                           Restaurant              East: Commercial Corridor
                                                    West: Downtown District

                                                       1
                                 CITY COUNCIL STAFF REPORT

GENERAL INFORMATION:
Location & Project Size:    50 East 2100 South – 0.37 Acres

Figure 1: Existing Zoning




Figure 2: Proposed Zoning




                                                   2
Figure 3: Existing Site Conditions




Figure 4: Preliminary Site Plan




                                       *SITE PLAN IS CONCEPTUAL – SUBJECT TO TECHNICAL REVIEW

PLANNING COMMISSION AUTHORITY:
17.11.010. Establishment and Duties of Planning Commission.
   K. Responsibilities.
       A. The Planning Commission makes recommendations to the City Council for:
              a. The general plan and amendments to the general plan;
              b. The Land Use Map, and amendments to the Land Use Map;
              c. Amendments to land use ordinances;
              d. Proposed Application processes and the delegation of power under the land use ordinance.




                                                    3
GENERAL PLAN CONSIDERATIONS:

Land Use & Neighborhoods Goal #1: Continue to welcome new residents and businesses into South Salt
Lake.

      Analysis: If granted, the applicant will continue through the entitlement process to develop In-N-Out
      Burger on the subject properties. This is In-N-Out Burgers’ first proposed location in South Salt Lake.
      There are currently 12 locations open and operating in Utah.

Economic Development Vision Statement: South Salt Lake is a community of opportunity for a variety of
businesses with diverse ownership serving a diverse community. Quality of life in South Salt Lake is enhanced
through sustainable businesses in a sustainable community. South Salt Lake encourages and supports
businesses by helping them form, expand, and thrive in our community. We build on past success for our future.

Economic Development Goal #1: Maximize South Salt Lake’s social and economic equity through value-based
decision making; Strengthen Downtown South Salt Lake; Enhance and elevate South Salt Lake’s regional
recognition; Ensure fiscally responsible development.

      Analysis: The applicant completed a Traffic Study analysis of the subject development. It is anticipated
      that a new In-N-Out Burger at this location could see approximately 1,800+ trips per day. This location
      will have approximately 81 employees. The business model is anticipated to generate a lot of business in
      South Salt Lake.

Economic Development Goal #4: Create catalytic areas to preserve South Salt Lake’s role as a commerce hub
in the valley; Catalytic area – Downtown South Salt Lake.

      Analysis: This development location is located between 2100 South and Main Street. The location is
      located in the South Salt Lake Downtown District. Between State Street, 2100 South, I-15 and I-80, there
      are a substantial number of cars a day that pass through this neighborhood. This business would be well
      supported in this commercial hub.

STAFF RECOMMENDATION:


Staff recommends the City Council approve a petition to amend the zoning map for one parcel from Commercial
Corridor (CC) to Crossing MPMU, with the following findings of fact and conditions:

Findings of Fact:
       1. The subject property, 50 East 2100 South, consists of one distinct lot.
       2. The subject property is located in the Commercial Corridor (CC) land use district.
       3. The proposed zone change will change the land use designation of the lot to the Crossing MPMU.
       4. The subject property is currently a vacant fast-food restaurant.
       5. In a separate application, the applicant is proposing consolidating via a subdivision plat amendment
            the subject lot with an adjacent parcel located at 28 East 2100 South to create a larger development
            lot for the purpose of developing a new In-N-Out Burger restaurant.
       6. The parcel located at 28 East 2100 South is located in the Crossing MPMU land use district, which
            permits fast food restaurants.

Conditioned upon the following:
       1. If approved, the petition to amend the zoning map will not take effect until such time that the South
          Salt Lake Planning Commission grants final plat approval of the subdivision plat amendment, and said
          plat is recorded with the office of the Salt Lake County Recorder.
       2. If approved and the applicant fails to record a subdivision plat within 180 days of final subdivision plat
          approval, the zoning map amendment petition approval is void.



                                                         4
PLANNING COMMISSION OPTIONS:

Option 1: Positive Recommendation
   Motion to approve, with conditions, the petition by Cassie Ruiz to amend the zoning map for one parcel from
   Commercial Corridor (CC) to Crossing MPMU based on the analysis and findings set forth in the staff report,
   with the following conditions of approval:

       1. If approved, the petition to amend the zoning map will not take effect until such time that the South
          Salt Lake Planning Commission grants final plat approval of the subdivision plat amendment, and said
          plat is recorded with the office of the Salt Lake County Recorder.
       2. If approved and the applicant fails to record a subdivision plat within 180 days of final subdivision plat
          approval, the zoning map amendment petition approval is void.

   Option 2: Negative Recommendation
   Motion to deny, the petition by Cassie Ruiz to amend the zoning map for one parcel from Commercial Corridor
   (CC) to Crossing MPMU, based on the findings discussed on the record.

   Option 3: Continuance
   Move to table the decision on the petition by Cassie Ruiz to the South Salt Lake City Council to amend the
   zoning map for one parcel from Commercial Corridor (CC) to Crossing MPMU, to a date certain to allow the
   Applicant and Staff time to respond to specific inquires or concerns raised by the City Council, or to allow the
   City Council more time to consider the proposal.




                                                        5
                                     ORDINANCE NO. 2023‐


AN ORDINANCE OF THE SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL AMENDING CHAPTERS 17.03 AND 17.06 OF
THE SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY MUNICIPAL CODE TO AMEND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS FOR SIDEWALKS
AND LANDSCAPE SETBACKS IN THE CROSSING MPMU DISTRICT.

        WHEREAS, the South Salt Lake City Council (the “City Council”) is authorized by law to enact
ordinances for the health, safety, and welfare of the City of South Salt Lake (the “City”);.
         WHEREAS, the City Council is authorized by law to enact, amend, and repeal ordinances
regulating land use and development within the City;
       WHEREAS, City staff identified chapters 17.03 and 17.06 in the South Salt Lake City Municipal
Code where certain technical corrections needed to be resolved and where other amendments were
proposed for the benefit of the City’s land use regulations;
         WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a public hearing, pursuant to Utah Code §§ 10-9a-
502 and 503 and South Salt Lake City Municipal Code Section 17.11.060, on October 5, 2023, where the
public had notice and an opportunity to comment on the proposed amendments to the City’s land use
regulations;
         WHEREAS, the Planning Commission, at the public hearing, found that the proposed
amendments were consistent with the goals and objectives of the City’s general plan and in the best
interests of the City and forwarded a recommendation of approval to the City Council; and
        WHEREAS, the City Council finds that a diversity of land uses is beneficial to the City, its
residents, business members and visitors; and
        WHEREAS, the City Council hereby determines that the amendments to chapters 17.03 and
17.06 of the South Salt Lake City Municipal Code are in line with the City’s interests in promoting
prosperity, economic and orderly growth, and improving the comfort, convenience and aesthetics of the
City.

NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the City Council of the City of South Salt Lake as follows:
       SECTION I. Enactment. Chapters 17.03 and 17.06, of the South Salt Lake Municipal Code is
hereby amended and attached hereto, and incorporated by reference in “Exhibit A”.

         SECTION II. Severability. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of this
ordinance is, for any reason, held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, such
provision shall be deemed a separate, distinct, and independent provision, and such holding shall not affect
the validity of the remaining portions of this ordinance.

        SECTION III. Conflict with Existing Ordinances, Resolutions, or Policies. To the extent that
any ordinances, resolutions, or policies of the City of South Salt Lake conflict with the provisions of this
ordinance, this ordinance shall prevail.

         SECTION IV. Effective Date. This ordinance shall become effective upon Mayor’s signature and
publication, or after fifteen days of transmission to the office of the Mayor if neither approved nor
disapproved by the Mayor, and thereafter, publication.




                                                     1
 DATED this            day of _________ 2023.
                                                BY THE CITY COUNCIL:


                                                Sharla Bynum, Council Chair


ATTEST:



 Ariel Andrus, City Recorder




 City Council Vote as Recorded:

          Bynum

          Huff
          Mila
          Pinkney
          Thomas
          Williams


Transmitted to the Mayor’s office on this        day of                       2023.



          Ariel Andrus, City Recorder


MAYOR’S ACTION:




          Dated this              day of                           , 2023.




                                                  Cherie Wood, Mayor
ATTEST:



 Ariel Andrus, City Recorder




                                                    2
                                                   Exhibit A

17.03.160 Crossing MPMU district.
A.   Intent and Administration. The Crossing Development is designed as the catalyst for redevelopment of the
     Central Point Project Area. Since every successful downtown redevelopment area has a grocery component,
     the Crossing Development includes a regional grocery store to anchor the project's other Retail, commercial,
     and Multi-Family Uses.
     1.   This Code is adopted in accordance with the provisions of Section 17.03.130 of this Code, regulating
          the establishment of Mixed-Use districts. This Section, in conjunction with the broader Code regulates
          Uses, Building forms, architecture, open space, Site Development standards, and parking and access
          requirements for the Crossing Development.
     2.   The Crossing Master Plan Book of Exhibits (CMPBE), attached hereto and incorporated by reference, is
          a compilation of exhibits meant to be conceptual in nature unless expressly referenced as regulatory
          herein.
     3.   Unless stated otherwise in this document, all requirements of this Code apply.
     4.   For the purposes of the Crossing Master Plan, the City Council is the land use authority for Multi-Family
          Development established as a Conditional Use in this MPMU district. Final approval of Conditional Uses
          and designs for Multi-Family Development must be preceded by a recommendation from the Planning
          Commission.
B.   Subdistrict Designations. Subdistrict boundaries are depicted in the subdistrict designation map of the
     CMPBE and are incorporated herein as regulatory.
     1.   Anchor Tenant. The Anchor Tenant subdistrict accommodates a large format Retail establishment to
          anchor the entire Crossing Development. The proposed establishment and associated parking and
          access must be contained entirely within this subdistrict.
     2.   2100 South Street Frontage. The 2100 South Street Frontage subdistrict allows a variety of Retail,
          office, and Residential Uses that complement the principal Retail and Residential Uses in the Crossing
          Development.
     3.   Transit. The Transit subdistrict allows a Multi-Family Development as further conditioned herein.
     4.   State Street Frontage. The State Street Frontage subdistrict allows for Retail Uses within in-line or
          single-tenant Retail Buildings that are oriented toward State Street. These Buildings will complement
          the principal Retail and Residential Uses in the Crossing Development, while addressing and activating
          the State Street corridor.
C.   Circulation. The Crossing Development shall provide an interior network of pedestrian and vehicular
     connections to facilitate access among subdistricts and between Uses.
D.   Open Space and Outdoor Gathering Areas. At a minimum, every Parcel will include open space that is
     appropriate for the Use, required by the South Salt Lake Municipal Code and integrated into a network of
     functional open spaces throughout the site.
E.   Building Types and Design Standards. The Crossing Development is a Mixed-Use district with Building types
     and design standards required to produce a harmonious mix of commercial Retail/Restaurant and Residential
     Uses tied to the urban Street network and embracing pedestrian and bike connections to the City and the
     streetcar. The area shall be organized around Compatible yet eclectic architectural Building statements in
     terms of character, materials, texture, and color of Buildings. Themed Restaurants, Retail chains, and other
     franchise-style Structures, signage and designs are prohibited. Themed business Uses must adjust their
     standard architectural prototype, signage, and designs to be consistent with the district's architectural
character. Only the following Building forms and corresponding design standards are allowed within the
Crossing Development.
1.   Anchor Retail. The anchor Retail Building is allowed solely in the Anchor Retail subdistrict and is
     regulated by the concept plan and elevations described in "Winco Foods Proposed Exterior Design"
     exhibits of the CMPBE.
2.   Multi-Family.
     a.    Urban-style Multi-Family Building. The urban-style Multi-Family Building form is allowed in the
           transit and 2100 South subdistricts. Urban-style Multi-Family Building forms, amenities, and Site
           Plans shall comply with each provision of the urban-style Multi-Family Building requirements of
           Chapter 17.07, except:
           i.     No Building shall exceed seventy-five (75) feet in height, as measured from natural grade.
           ii.    In the Transit subdistrict, from former Major Street to State Street, no Building shall not
                  exceed twenty-eight (28) feet in height measured from natural Grade.
           iii.   First level floor-to-floor dimension shall be no less than ten feet.
           iv.    At least seventy-five (75) percent of the units must have either Porches or balconies.
                        a)    The average depth of each Porch/balcony must be at least five (5) feet.
                        b)    The area of each Porch/balcony must be at least forty (40) square feet.
           v.     Fifty (50) percent of the Street level perimeter of any above-Grade parking garage must be
                  Retail or office Uses permitted in the subdistrict within habitable space that is at least
                  twenty-five (25) deep.
           vi.    For Urban-Style Multi-Family Buildings, the required amenities can be found in Section
                  17.07.110.
     b.    Townhome Building shall comply with the standards found in Section 17.07.080.
     c.    Common Requirements. Regardless of Multi-Family Building form, the following Site-specific
           requirements and adjustments shall be made for Multi-Family Development:
           i.     Setback requirements for each Multi-Family Development are set forth in Street cross-
                  sections of the CMPBE.
           ii.    Architectural design characteristics and trim treatments are to be consistent with a
                  contemporary form of Building design and details that are expressed in high quality durable
                  materials including wood siding, cementitious fiberboard, brick masonry, split-faced
                  masonry, architecturally finished concrete. Glass, architectural metal panels, or corrugated
                  metal may be used as accent materials and shall not be the dominant materials on any
                  elevation. Stucco, EIFS to be limited to a maximum of ten (10) percent of any Building
                  Elevation.
           iii.   Each elevation of a proposed Building shall provide patios, balconies, windows and doors
                  for minimum of twenty (20) percent of the wall area. Windows must be trimmed with
                  finished edges Compatible to the contemporary form of the rest of the elevation.
           iv.    The location of utility metering, electrical cabinets, transformers and other equipment
                  (some of which is existing) must be screened from public view.
3.   Commercial Retail Buildings. The commercial Retail Building type is allowed in the 2100 South Street
     and State Street Frontage subdistricts and is designed for small and moderate scale commercial, Retail,
     and Restaurant Uses that typically accompany large format Retail, housing, and other Uses typically
     found in Mixed-Use centers. The required Site Plan and Building type provides convenient automobile
     access from the thoroughfare, while minimizing the negative impacts of Parking Lots upon the
pedestrian. Commercial Retail Buildings may be freestanding Structures intended for Use by a single
tenant or may be multi-tenant Buildings. Except as modified below and as depicted in the Building
Elevation exhibit of the CMPBE, the provisions of this Code, the layout, orientation, Setbacks, and
materials intended for Use for commercial Retail Buildings apply:
a.   Orientation. New commercial Retail Buildings must be oriented to create quality Streetscapes
     and connected pedestrian pathways within the Development. The anticipated orientation of
     commercial Retail Buildings is indicated in the "Building Elevation" exhibit of the CMPBE.
b.   Materials. Primary Materials must consist of glass, integral color CMU, metal panel, tile, metal or
     cementitious fiber board. EIFS may be used up to seventy-five (75) percent of non-glass areas. An
     approved palette of materials is referenced in the "Building Elevation" exhibit of the MPBE.
c.   Primary Façades. Primary Façades on structures using the commercial Retail Building form must
     incorporate a Building canopy, awning, or similar weather protection along the Building's
     principal public entrance, projecting at least four (4) feet from the Façade. In addition, Primary
     Façades incorporate visually prominent Building entrances through the use of at least one of the
     following features:
     i.     Secondary roof Structures, or a parapet roof with transitions, used to accent the principal
            public entrance.
     ii.    Outdoor pedestrian features such as seat walls and Landscaping, or permanent landscaped
            planters with integrated benches.
     iii.   Architectural detailing such as tile, metal, stone, precast or cement board work and
            moldings integrated into the Building structure.
d.   Secondary Façades.
     i.     All secondary Façades that face State Street shall include a similar level of architectural
            detail and treatment consistent with the Primary Façade. Secondary Façade walls must
            include a window, a functional doorway, or another architectural detail to match the
            architectural articulation of the Primary Façade.
     ii.    All secondary Façades facing other access roads may include a reduced level of
            architectural detail and treatment consistent with the Primary Façade.
e.   Windows. Commercial Retail Buildings shall comply with the following window requirements:
     i.     All Street level windows within twenty (20) feet of the principal pedestrian entrance of a
            multi-tenant Building shall be visually permeable.
     ii.    Front Façade walls shall include a window or functional general access doorway per the
            following standard:
                  a)    Every twenty-four (24) feet for Structures of forty thousand (40,000) square
                        feet or less in size; and
                  b)    Every forty (40) feet for Structures larger than forty thousand (40,000) square
                        feet in size.
f.   Roofs. Commercial Retail Buildings shall have a flat roof with parapet walls. Parapet walls must
     feature transitions and articulation to match the architectural articulation of the primary Façade.
     All rooftop equipment must be screened from view from all Streets, Parking Areas, and drive
     approaches.
g.   Side and Rear Loading and Service Areas. Loading, service, and equipment areas must be located
     in a manner that minimizes their visibility from drive approaches and Streets. Loading, service,
     and equipment areas must be screened through the use of Architectural Elements and materials
     that reduce their visibility.
          h.    Drive-through Facilities. Drive through facilities, where permitted as Accessory Uses associated
                with commercial Retail Buildings, must include a canopy or roof that is architecturally integrated
                with the Building and that mirrors the roof form of the Primary Structure. Drive-through access is
                prohibited on Façades that face State Street.
F.   Crossing Development Sign Standards. Sign locations and details are found in Site Signage exhibit of the
     MPBE. Signage shall comply with the requirements of the South Salt Lake Municipal Code, except as provided
     for in this Section and in the exhibits. Signage must be consistent with the theme and unity provisions in the
     Building design standards. Internally illuminated cabinet Wall Signs are prohibited, except to display a logo or
     individual alphanumeric characters.
G.   Crossing Development Landscaping Standards.
     1.   A concept Landscape Plan for the Crossing Development is included in Landscape Area Exhibit of the
          CMPBE. The Landscape Plan is illustrative in nature. Tree and plant spacing may vary depending on the
          location of existing utilities and other site conditions. The 2100 South Street Frontage subdistrict must
          shall comply with the landscape standards in Section 17.06.300 and shall have a minimum 10-foot
          landscape setback measuring from back of right-of-way along Main Street and 2100 South.
     2.   Transit District Landscape Standards. All Multi-Family open space areas are to be landscaped with a
          combination of trees (two-inch minimum caliper), shrubbery, lawn, groundcover, plaza paving, and
          mulching. Street trees are to be spaced at thirty feet on center on average. Ornamental open space
          trees are to be planted at a rate of not less than fifteen (15) trees per open space acre. The tree species
          are to be selected from the following pallet:
          a.    Street trees:
                 i.     Green Ash
                 ii.    Linden
                 iii.   Honey Locust
                 iv.    Zelkova
                 v.     Tatarian Maple
          b.    Ornamental Open Space Trees:
                 i.     Red Bud
                 ii.    Crab Apple
                 iii.   Flowering Pear
                 iv.    Columnar Spruce
H.   Crossing Development Parking and Access Standards. Parking and access requirements established in
     Chapter 17.06 apply, unless otherwise provided in specific terms as follows. Pedestrian access to each
     subdistrict within the Development is required and must include lighted and paved pedestrian pathways
     connecting Parking Lots, public Rights-of-Way, principal public entrances of each Building, and adjacent
     public trails and transit.
     1.   Parking for Retail Uses. Parking for Retail Uses must be provided at a standard ratio of four Parking
          Stalls per one thousand (1,000) square feet of gross Floor Area.
     2.   Parking for All Multi-Family Uses. Parking for Multi-Family Uses must be provided in the form of
          individual garages and on-site Parking Stalls for urban-style Multi-Family Buildings an access-controlled
          multi-level parking garage incorporated in the overall residential apartment Building.
          a.    Multi-Family Uses require 1.2 Parking Stalls per Dwelling Unit.
          b.    The maximum number of Parking Stalls allowed adjacent to Central Pointe Boulevard shall be 12.
                These Parking Stalls may be oriented diagonally but must be located on the Multi-Family
                Development Site.
     3.   Bicycle Amenities. One exterior bicycle parking space is required for each 10 residential units.
     4.   Streetcar Orientation. The Crossing Development must provide Building entrances with direct access to
          the streetcar station or with direct connectivity to the streetcar station via sidewalks. These areas must
          be landscaped with paving and planting materials and are to include Site furnishings designed for
          comfortable use. Benches compliant with the Downtown Furnishings Handbook will be provided on the
          perimeter of the Crossing Development for public use. Along the perimeter of the Crossing
          Development landscape areas must be installed and maintained to improve and enhance the
          Streetscape. The corner of Central Pointe Place and Main Street must be enhanced with a landscaped
          plaza area and public amenities.
     5.   Pedestrian/Bicycle Rider Connectivity. The following Street improvements are required: wide
          sidewalks; Street furnishings, Landscaping, a dedicated bike lane located along Central Pointe Place,
          and all public Rights-of-Way to provide connectivity to community and neighborhood nodes.

17.06.300 Landscaping.
A.   Purpose. The purpose of this Chapter is to outline Landscaping requirements that establish minimum
     standards to:
     1.   Improve the City's image and identity;
     2.   Increase the Compatibility of adjacent Uses and minimize the harmful impacts of noise, dust, debris,
          and light pollution;
     3.   Enhance the visual appearance of Streetscapes;
     4.   Encourage innovation and design;
     5.   Establish opportunities for sustainable storm water management;
     6.   Encourage water conservation;
     7.   Support a diversity of plants suited to local conditions; and
     8.   Sustain and improve the City's urban forest.
B.   Applicability. This Chapter applies to all new Development and Structure additions.
     1.   Wherever Landscaped Areas are required by this Chapter, a Landscape Plan shall be submitted to the
          City.
     2.   A Landscape Plan is required for any Application for a Building Permit or certificate of occupancy. A
          Building Permit will not be issued without submission and City approval of a Landscape Plan.
     3.   The Landscaped Areas as required by this Section shall be installed on property where Landscaped
          Areas are not in place or are non-conforming when:
          a.    New construction occurs on undeveloped, vacant, or cleared property.
          b.    A Conditional Use permit is issued, or a change of Use occurs. The land use authority shall make
                installation of Landscaping a condition of approval.
          c.    A Building Permit is issued for any addition, expansion, or intensification of any property other
                than an existing Single-Family home that increases the Floor Area of a Building and/or the parking
                requirement by 50 percent or more.
           d.    A Building Permit is issued for any addition to a Single-Family residence that increases the Floor
                 Area of the residence by 75 percent or more. This standard does not apply to expansion or
                 addition of accessory Buildings on residential properties.
           e.    A change of Use occurs.
           f.    A Parking Area is expanded by 15 percent, or a minimum of seven stalls.
           g.    An existing property is re-landscaped.
     Public parks, recreation facilities, and open spaces in any district are exempt from the provisions of this
     Chapter.
C.   Modification. Existing Structures shall comply with the standards contained in this Chapter, to the maximum
     extent possible.
D.   General Landscape Requirements.
     1.    At a minimum, Landscaping is required in all Yard areas, along the perimeter of Parking Areas, in front
           of Buildings, and in the Front Setback of any improved property not used for parking, driveways,
           walkways, or approved display areas.
     2.    General Design Standards.
           a.    Landscape Plans shall be prepared and approved based on design standards in this Chapter and
                 other applicable City requirements.
           b.    Tree and Shrub Requirements.
                 i.     Not less than 75 percent of the trees specified on the Landscape Plan shall be water
                        conserving species.
                 ii.    Deciduous and ornamental trees shall have a minimum two-inch caliper trunk size at the
                        time of installation.
                 iii.   Evergreen trees shall have a minimum height of six feet at the time of installation.
                        Evergreens shall be incorporated into a Site where a Buffer is required between adjacent
                        Uses or busy roadways.
                 iv.    Shrubs shall have a minimum height or spread of 18 inches at the time of installation,
                        depending on the plant's natural growth habit (after two years of growth). Plants in five-
                        gallon containers will generally comply with this standard.
                 v.     Existing trees that are non-invasive and not noxious and that are preserved and
                        incorporated into the Landscape Plan shall be credited toward the minimum number of
                        trees required by this Chapter. Trees must be in healthy condition and free of injury to
                        receive this credit. Any credited tree that is not preserved or is significantly damaged
                        during construction shall be removed and replaced with four trees, each with a minimum
                        caliper of four inches. Tree replacement shall conform to the tree and shrub requirements.
           c.    Plant and Turf Grass Requirements.
                 i.     Annual and perennial plants shall be installed from transplants, and not seeded on site.
                 ii.    Only water conserving varieties of Turf Grass shall be used in the City.
                 iii.   No more than 35% of the front and side yard landscaped area in any new single-family
                        residential development may be Turf Grass.
                 iv.    No Turf Grass is permitted in the total Landscaped Area in any new townhome, multi-
                        family residential, commercial or flex development, outside of active recreation zones.
               v.     No Turf Grass is permitted on Park Strips or areas less than eight feet in width in new
                      development.
               vi.    Turf Grass may be seeded on site, but the seeded area must be 100% covered with Turf
                      Grass within one year.
               vii.   Live Plant Material shall comprise at least 75% of the total Landscaped Area for all
                      properties.
          d.   Mulch and Decorative Rock Requirements.
               i.     Landscaped Areas may include mulch and decorative rock in accordance with Park Strip
                      requirements and specific Use requirements specified in this Chapter.
               ii.    If ornamental gravel is utilized, it must be contained within durable borders or edging.
               iii.   At least 3-4 inches of mulch, permeable to air and water, shall be used in planting areas to
                      control weeds and improve the appearance of the landscaping.
          e.   Swales and Detention or Retention Basins.
               i.     Swales and detention or retention basins required for storm water management shall be
                      landscaped with suitable trees, shrubs, groundcover, perennials, or other Landscaping
                      materials, and/or decorative paving. Swales may not be used in the Setbacks of Townhome
                      Developments.
               ii.    Live Plant Material shall cover at least 75% of the area of the swale or detention or
                      retention basin.
               iii.   Swales, detention and retention basins shall not be deeper that than 1.5 feet.
          f.   Berming is prohibited.
          g.   Irrigation. Permanent irrigation systems are required wherever Landscaping is required by this
               Chapter. Irrigation systems shall meet the standards below.
               i.     All irrigation shall be appropriate for the designated plant material to achieve the highest
                      water efficiency. Drip irrigation or bubblers shall be used except in Turf Grass areas. Drip
                      irrigation systems shall be equipped with a pressure regulator, filter, flush-end assembly,
                      and any other appropriate components.
               ii.    Each irrigation valve shall irrigate landscaping with similar site, slope, and soil conditions,
                      and plant materials with similar watering needs. Turf Grass and planting areas shall be
                      irrigated on separate irrigation valves. In addition, drip emitters and sprinklers shall be
                      placed on separate irrigation valves.
          h.   Clear View Requirements. All landscape elements are subject to the Clear View Area
               requirements.
E.   Landscape Plan Requirements.
     1.   Content of Landscape Plan. All Landscape Plans submitted for approval shall be drawn in accordance
          with the South Salt Lake Community Development Department's plan submittal requirements. The
          Landscape Plan shall include:
          a.   The location and dimensions of all existing and proposed Structures, Property Lines, easements,
               planting areas, Buffers, Parking Lots, driveways, roadways and Rights-of-Way, sidewalks, bicycle
               paths, freestanding signs, waste enclosures, bicycle parking areas, fences, walls, ground level
               utility equipment, recreational facilities, and any other freestanding Structure.
          b.   The location, spacing, quantity, size, and common and botanical names of all proposed plants.
     c.    The location, size, and common and botanical names of all existing trees and other plants on the
           property and in the Park Strip, either to be retained or removed.
     d.    Existing and proposed grading of the site at one-foot contour intervals including any proposed
           landscaped Berms.
     e.    Elevations for fences and retaining walls proposed for location on the site.
     f.    Elevations, cross sections, and other details as determined necessary by the land use authority.
     g.    The irrigation plan, drawn on a separate sheet.
     h.    Summary data indicating the area of the site in the following classifications:
           i.     Total area and percentage of the site in Landscaped Area.
           ii.    Total area and percentage of the site in Turf Grasses.
           iii.   Total area and percentage of the site in water-efficient plant species at mature growth.
           iv.    Total area and percentage of the site in planting area.
2.   Landscape Maintenance Standards.
     a.    Responsibility. The property Owner shall be responsible for the maintenance, irrigation, repair
           and replacement of all plants, turf, trees, and Landscaping materials required in this Chapter. The
           property Owner shall also keep their property free of uncontrolled weed and volunteer plant
           growth.
     b.    Landscaping Materials. Landscaping shall be maintained in good condition in a healthy, neat, and
           orderly appearance. Plants and trees that are dead or dying shall be removed and replaced.
           Landscaped Areas shall be regularly irrigated, mowed and pruned as needed, be kept free of
           weeds, dead plants, garbage, and debris.
     c.    Pruning Required. Trees, hedges, shrubs, and plants near public sidewalks and roads shall be
           pruned and maintained so that the public Right-of-Way is unobstructed. Shade trees or other
           plantings that project over any sidewalk shall be maintained clear of all branches between the
           ground and a height of six (6) feet for that portion of the plant located over the sidewalk. Shade
           trees and plantings that project over any Street or access road shall be maintained free of any
           plant material extending over the Street to a height of 14 feet from the Grade of the Street or
           access road.
     d.    Irrigation Systems. Irrigation systems shall be maintained in good operating condition to promote
           the conservation of water.
3.   Landscape Requirements for Park Strips.
a.   Intent. The intent of the Park Strip Landscaping standards is to enhance the aesthetics of City Streets,
     to increase safety along roadways, to prohibit materials that may cause harm or injury to pedestrians
     and vehicles, to provide safe and convenient access across Park Strips to and from parking and
     pedestrian access, to allow access for repair and maintenance of public utilities, and to uphold Clear
     View Area requirements.
b.   Applicability. Park Strip standards apply to all properties in the City, including vacant Lots that have
     curbs and/or gutters along Street Frontages. Owners of property on Streets that lack curb and gutter
     are not required to maintain formal Landscaping within the public Right-of-Way, unless new curb and
     gutter is required as new Development occurs.
c.   Installation. All Park Strips shall be landscaped and continuously maintained by the abutting property
     Owner. For permits involving new construction or a change of Use, Park Strip Landscaping shall be
     shown on the required Landscape Plan.
  d.    Park Strip Design Standards Table:
  Street       Park Strip     Paving     Inorganic          %      Planting      Min. Live    Street Trees
  Profile       Width        Materials   Materials      Allowed    Materials       Plant
                                                                                 Material
                                                                                 Coverage
  Urban        Less than                   Mulch,        100                       50%       Street trees not
 Corridor          3'                      gravel,                   Hardy                       allowed
(excluding                               stone, and               groundcover*
Downtown                                  concrete
   and           3' to 5'                  Mulch,        100      Groundcover      50%         30' interval
Townhome                                 gravel, and
 Overlay)                                   stone                  Annual or                    2" caliper
2100 South                                                         perennial                    minimum
2700 South                                                           plants
3300 South     More than                   Mulch,        100      Groundcover      50%         30' interval
3900 South        5'                     gravel, and
 700 East                                   stone                  Annual or                    2" caliper
 300 West                                                          perennial                    minimum
Main Street                                                         plants
                                                                                               tree grates or
                                                                                              tree wells with
                                                                                                 decorative
                                                                                                  gravel are
                                                                                                 required**
State Street         10'      Brick or       Concrete    100%                                 Medium sized
  and City     landscape     Concrete                                                           Street trees
  Streets           zone                                                                     spaced every 25
   within      measured                                                                          feet within
Townhome       from back                                                                            large,
Overlay and       of curb                                                                       permanent,
Downtown          (trees,                                                                     raised planters
  Districts        raised                                                                     or within well-
                planters,                                                                         designed
               pedestrian                                                                         concrete
                oriented                                                                       cutouts, with
                   street                                                                    permanent tree
                 lighting,                                                                         grates.
                   street
               furniture)
  Other         Less than                Concrete,       100%     Groundcover      50%       Street trees not
Residential           2'                   gravel,                                             encouraged.
                                         stone, and                Annual or
                                           mulch                   perennial
                                                                    plants

                                                                      Turf
                 2' to 3'                  Gravel,       100%     Groundcover      50%       Street trees not
                                         stone, and                                            encouraged.
                                           mulch                   Annual or
                                                                   perennial
                                                                    plants
                                                                                                          Turf
                          More than                                Gravel,              100%          Groundcover    50%     30' interval
                             3'                                  stone, and
                                                                   mulch                                Annual or             2" caliper
                                                                                                        perennial             minimum
                                                                                                         plants

                                                                                                          Turf
     Commercial            Less than                               Gravel,              100%          Groundcover    50%   Street trees not
         or                    2'              Pavers -          stone, and                                                  encouraged
        Flex                                    brick,             mulch                               Annual or
                                              stone, or                                                perennial
                                              concrete                                                   plants
                            2' to 3'                               Gravel,              100%          Groundcover    50%   Street trees not
                                               Pavers -          stone, and                                                  encouraged
                                                brick,             mulch                               Annual or
                                              stone, or                                                perennial
                                              concrete                                                   plants
                          More than                                Gravel,              100%          Groundcover    50%     30' interval
                             3'                                  stone, and
                                                                   mulch                                Annual or             2" caliper
                                                                                                        perennial             minimum
                                                                                                         plants
                                                                                                                            tree grates or
                                                                                                            Turf           tree wells with
                                                                                                                              decorative
                                                                                                                               gravel are
                                                                                                                              required**


* Hardy groundcover my be any type of groundcover that is capable of withstanding snow and heat.

** Tree grates or tree wells shall be a minimum of five feet in radius measured from the center of the tree trunk.

F.      Landscape Requirements Along Urban Corridor Streets.
        1.      Applicability. The Landscaping standards in this Section shall be required for all properties with
                Frontage along State Street, 2100 South, 3300 South, 3900 South, 900 West, 300 West, 700 East, and
                Main Street.
        2.      Design Standards: 2100 South, 3300 South, 3900 South, 900 West, 300 West, 700 East, and Main Street
                (excluding Downtown, the Crossing MPMU, and Townhome Overlay District).
                a.       Area. Installation of a minimum of 15 feet of Landscaping along the entire length of the property
                         between the back of the sidewalk along the urban corridor Street and any fence, Parking Area, or
                         Structure on the Site is required.
                b.       Prohibited Uses and Activities. Parking, display, sales, storage, Structures, or temporary signage
                         are not allowed in the Landscaped Areas.
                c.       Approved access driveways and walkways are allowed to cross the landscape area.
                d.       Outdoor seating areas up to 300 square feet in area for Restaurants and similar public Uses are
                         allowed in the landscape areas.
                e.       Live plant material coverage of at least 75%.
          f.    A minimum of one tree is required for every 1,000 square feet of Landscaped Area.
     3.   Design Standards: State Street, Downtown, the Crossing MPMU and Townhome Overlay Urban
          Landscape Area.
          a.    Area. Installation of a minimum width of 15 10.5 feet of concrete sidewalk and street landscaping
                (measured from back of curb) along the entire length of the property between the back of the
                curb along dedicated Streets to any fence, Parking Area, or Structure on the Site is required.
          b.    Prohibited Uses and Activities. Parking, display, sales, storage, Structures (other than required
                raised planters), or temporary signage are not allowed in the Landscaped Areas.
          c.    Approved Local Access Roads and walkways are allowed to cross the urban landscape area.
G.   Landscape Requirements for Parking Lots.
     1.   Intent. Landscaping is required for Parking Areas in order to break up large expanses of pavement, to
          provide relief from reflected glare and heat, to guide vehicular and pedestrian traffic, and to efficiently
          and sustainably retain storm water.
     2.   Applicability. All Hard-Surfaced Parking Areas, including those for vehicle sales, with 14 or more Parking
          Stalls shall provide Landscaping in accordance with the provisions of this Section. Smaller Parking Areas
          shall not be required to provide Landscaping other than Landscaping required for Park Strips, Buffers,
          and front yards.
     3.   Parking Lot Landscaping Standards.
          a.    General Requirements.
                i.     Site Plan Required.
                ii.    All Landscaping shall meet Clear View Area requirements.
                iii.   Landscaped Areas shall be protected by concrete vertical curbs. Curbs shall be designed to
                       allow storm water to enter the Landscaped Area. Where such curbs serve as a wheel stop
                       for Parking Stalls, not less than 36 inches shall be provided in the planting area as overhang
                       clearance for tree locations.
                iv.    Pedestrian paths in Parking Lots, with the exception of crosswalks, shall be bordered by
                       landscaped Park Strips with a minimum width of three feet, in accordance with the
                       commercial or industrial Park Strip standards of this Chapter.
          b.    Interior Landscaping.
                i.     Area. Not less than five percent (5%) of the interior of a Parking Area shall be devoted to
                       Landscaping.
                ii.    Interior Landscaping Design Standards.
                             a)    Driveway buffers shall be landscaped. The landscaping shall be a minimum of
                                   eight feet in width, as measured from back of curb to back of curb and shall run
                                   the length of the driveway.
                             b)    Surface Parking Lots containing 60 or more customer stalls shall have
                                   landscaping islands every 15 stalls or median islands every two (2) rows. Shade
                                   trees shall be provided at no less than one tree per ten Parking Stalls. Tree wells
                                   shall be a minimum of five feet in radius measured from the center of the tree
                                   trunk.
                iii.   Perimeter Landscaping. Where a Parking Lot is located within a required yard area or
                       within 20 feet of a Lot Line, perimeter Landscaping shall be required along the perimeter of
                       the Parking Lot. Perimeter Landscaping must be at least seven (7) feet in width, as
                       measured from the back of the Parking Lot curb. At least one tree shall be planted for each
                       400 square feet of the landscaped Perimeter Landscaping shall be planted.
                            a)     Public Right of Way shall have eight feet (8’) of landscaping.
                            b)     A non-Single-Family Residential Use shall have eight feet (8’) of landscaping.
                            c)     A Single-Family Residential Use shall have ten feet (10’) of landscaping.
H.   Landscape Requirements for Buffers.
     1.   Intent. Buffers are used to mitigate the transition between Development types and incompatible Uses.
     2.   Applicability. All Buffers required by other sections in this Code shall be landscaped.
     3.   Buffer Design Standards. Landscape Buffers shall be reserved for planting and fencing. No parking,
          driveways, or Accessory Structure shall be permitted, unless specifically authorized through the Site
          Plan review process. Landscape Buffers may be located within required Setbacks. Where both
          landscape Buffers and Parking Lot Landscaping is required the more restrictive shall apply.
     4.   At least one tree shall be planted for each 400 square feet of the landscaped Buffer shall be planted.
I.   Specific Landscape Standards.
     1.   Design Standards.
          a.    Single-Family Buildings.
                i.     Front yard and corner side yard Landscaped Areas required to be landscaped shall be
                       landscaped with suitable trees, shrubs, groundcovers, perennials, or other Landscaping
                       materials. Plants, not including tree canopies, shall cover at least 75% of the front and/or
                       corner side yard area at maturity.
     ii.    Each front yard shall contain at least two (2) trees.
     iii.   Water features, landscape boulders, decorative rocks, gravel, and organic mulch are
            permitted but shall not be considered a substitute for plants.
b.   Multi-Family Developments.
     i.     Landscaped Areas. Yards, Setbacks, Park Strips, required Buffers, required open space, and
            Parking Areas shall be landscaped as required in this Chapter. Landscaping shall be used to
            screen ground level utility equipment from view of Streets, sidewalks, or walkways to the
            greatest extent possible. No Turf Grass is permitted in the total Landscaped Area in any
            new multi-family residential development, outside of active recreation zones.
     ii.    Plant Coverage. All required Landscaped Areas shall be landscaped with suitable trees,
            shrubs, groundcovers, perennials, or other Landscaping materials. Plants, not including tree
            canopies, shall cover at least 75% of required Landscaped Areas.
     iii.   Site Trees. A minimum of two (2) trees per 1,000 square feet of Landscaped Area is
            required, in addition to requirements for Yards, Setbacks, Park Strips, required Buffers, and
            Parking Areas described in this Chapter.
     iv.    Water features, landscape boulders, decorative rocks, gravel, and organic mulch are
            permitted but shall not be considered a substitute for plants.
     v.     If ornamental gravel is utilized, it must be contained within durable borders or landscaped
            edging.
c.   Townhome Developments.
     i.     Landscaped Areas. Yards, Setbacks, Park Strips, required Buffers, required Common Open
            Space, Usable Open Space, and Parking Areas shall be landscaped as required in this
            Chapter. Landscaping shall be used to screen ground level utility equipment from view of
            Streets, sidewalks, or walkways to the greatest extent possible. No Turf Grass is permitted
            in the total Landscaped Area in any new townhome development, outside of active
            recreation zones.
     ii.    Plant Coverage. All required Landscaped Areas shall be landscaped with suitable trees,
            shrubs, groundcovers, perennials, or other Landscaping materials. Plants, not including tree
            canopies, shall cover at least 75% of required Landscaped Areas.
     iii.   Site Trees. Trees are required every 20 feet in all Setback and Buffer areas, both sides of
            the Local Access street, in addition to requirements for Yards, Open Space, and Parking
            Areas described in this Chapter.
d.   Commercial and Flex.
     i.     Landscaped Areas. Landscaped Areas shall comprise not less than 15 percent of a
            commercial or professional office site. Landscape requirements for Buffers, Parking Areas,
            Park Strips, and additional Landscaping along urban corridor Streets as required in this
            Chapter may be included as part of the overall site requirement. Landscaping shall be used
            to screen ground level utility equipment from view of Streets, sidewalks, or walkways to
            the greatest extent possible. No Turf Grass is permitted in the total Landscaped Area in any
            new commercial or flex development, outside of active recreation zones.
     ii.    Plant Coverage. All required Landscaped Areas shall be landscaped with suitable trees,
            shrubs, groundcovers, perennials, or other Landscaping materials. Live plants, not including
            tree canopies, shall cover at least 75% of required Landscaped Areas.
iii.   Site Trees. A minimum of two (2) trees per 1,000 square feet of Landscaped Area is
       required, in addition to requirements for Yards, Setbacks, Park Strips, required Buffers, and
       Parking Areas described in this Chapter.
iv.    Water features, landscape boulders, decorative rocks, gravel, and organic mulch are
       permitted but shall not be considered a substitute for plants. Landscape boulders shall only
       be allowed as a focal feature or may be used as a protective device from vehicle traffic.
v.     If ornamental gravel is utilized, it must be contained within durable borders and arranged
       in a decorative pattern that incorporates varying sizes, types, or colors of gravel.
                                   CITY COUNCIL STAFF REPORT
MEETING DATE:                October 25, 2023
PROJECT NUMBERS:             2320039
REQUEST:                     A petition to South Salt Lake City Council to approve an ordinance amending Title
                             17.03.160 and 17.06.300 to amend development standards for sidewalks and
                             landscape setbacks along Main Street in the Crossing MPMU
APPLICANT:                   Cassie Ruiz
TYPE OF APPLICATION:         Legislative – Code Change

 SYNOPSIS:
 Cassie Ruiz, on behalf of In-N-Out Burger, is petitioning the South Salt Lake City Council to approve an
 ordinance amending Sections 17.03.160 and 17.06.300 to amend development standards for sidewalks and
 landscaping along Main Street in the Crossing MPMU. The purpose of the amendment is to support the site
 planning process for the development of a new In-N-Out Burger located on the corner of 2100 South and Main
 Street and clean up conflicting language that persists through the two code sections.

 The Planning Commission is the recommending body for amendments to land use ordinances and the City
 Council is the land use authority for amendments to land use ordinances.

 RECOMMENDATION:
 Staff recommends approval to the City Council for an ordinance amending Sections 17.03.160 and 17.06.300
 to amend development standards for sidewalks and landscape setbacks along Main Street in the Crossing
 MPMU.

 PLANNING COMMISSION:
 On October 5, 2023, the Planning Commission unanimously recommended approval to the City Council for an
 ordinance amending Sections 17.03.160 and 17.06.300 to amend development standards for sidewalks and
 landscape setbacks along Main Street in the Crossing MPMU.

SUMMARY OF ORDINANCE AMENDMENT:
Staff has provided a summary of proposed amendments below. For the full amendment to Title 17, please see
the attachments provided herein that include a full-redlined ordinance.

 CODE SECTIONS                                           HIGHLIGHT OF CHANGES
 Amending Section 17.06.300                              17.06.300 (F) – Landscape Requirements along
 Development Standards for Landscaping                   Urban Corridor Streets
                                                          Standards apply to Main Street and 2100 South,
                                                             with exceptions for the Downtown District along
                                                             these two corridors. The Crossing MPMU does
                                                             not have any listed exceptions to requirements.
                                                                  2100 South and Main Street require 15 ft
                                                                     of landscaping along property frontage
                                                                     between back of sidewalk and any
                                                                     structure. **Landscaping on private
                                                                     property**
                                                                  Downtown District properties that front
                                                                     Main Street and 2100 South require 15 ft
                                                                     of urban sidewalk and street landscaping
                                                                     (tree grates) measured from back of curb
                                                                     with building setbacks at back of sidewalk.
                                                                     **All infrastructure is in public right of
                                                     1
                                                                         way** Note – This conflicts with 17.10
                                                                         infrastructure requirements that requires a
                                                                         10.5 ft sidewalk in this district.
                                                            17.03.160 – Crossing MPMU Standards
                                                             Standards in the Crossing MPMU conflict with the
                                                                requirements of 17.06.300. The Crossing MPMU
                                                                depicts a 5 ft sidewalk flush with curb/gutter, a 5
                                                                ft. landscape setback outside of the right of way
                                                                and a 5 ft minimum setback of raised planters and
                                                                benches. **Only the sidewalk falls within the
                                                                public right of way, all other landscaping is on
                                                                private property**
                                                            Proposed Amendment:
                                                             For the Crossing MPMU along Main Street require
                                                                a 10.5 ft sidewalk flush with curb/gutter with trees
                                                                in tree grates along curb. (Same standard as
                                                                Downtown District) **All within the public right of
                                                                way**
                                                             For the Crossing MPMU along Main Street require
                                                                a 10 ft minimum landscaped setback between any
                                                                sidewalk and Structure.


PLANNING COMMISSION AUTHORITY:
17.11.010. Establishment and Duties of Planning Commission.
   K. Responsibilities.

      A. The Planning Commission makes recommendations to the City Council for:
            a. The general plan and amendments to the general plan;
            b. The Land Use Map, and amendments to the Land Use Map;
            c. Amendments to land use ordinances;
            d. Proposed Application processes and the delegation of power under the land use ordinance.
Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-502. Preparation and adoption of land use regulation states:

PLANNING COMMISSION REVIEW:
       1. A planning commission shall:
               a. provide notice as required by Subsection 10-9a-205(1)(a) and, if applicable, Subsection 10-9a-
                   205(4);
               b. hold a public hearing on a proposed land use regulation;
               c. if applicable, consider each written objection filed in accordance with Subsection 10-9a-
                   205(4) prior to the public hearing; and
               d. review and recommend to the legislative body a proposed land use regulation that represents
                   the planning commission's recommendation for regulating the use and development of land
                   within all or any part of the area of the municipality; and forward to the legislative body all
                   objections filed in accordance with Subsection 10-9a-205(4).

CITY COUNCIL OPTIONS:
Option 1: Approval

   Move to approve the ordinance amending Sections 17.03.160 and 17.06.300 to amend development standards
   for sidewalks and landscape setbacks along Main Street in the Crossing MPMU
Option 2: Recommendation of Denial


                                                        2
  Move to deny the ordinance amending Sections 17.03.160 and 17.06.300 to amend development standards
  for sidewalks and landscape setbacks along Main Street in the Crossing MPMU
  Option 3: Continuance
  Move to table the ordinance amending Sections 17.03.160 and 17.06.300 to amend development standards
  for sidewalks and landscape setbacks along Main Street in the Crossing MPMU to a date certain to allow the
  Applicants and Staff time to respond to specific inquires or concerns raised by the City Council, or to allow the
  City Council more time to consider the proposal.
Attachments:

  1. Redlined Ordinance Amendment




                                                       3
3709 S. BALMOSSIE DR.                                                            801.671.1154
SOUTH SALT LAKE, UT 84115                                       PAUL_S_SANCHEZ@HOTMAIL.COM



                            PAUL SANCHEZ
OBJECTIVE

To create community engagement, support businesses and encourage community growth.



EDUCATION

University of Utah                                                           Salt Lake City, Utah
Bachelor of Arts in Mass Communications                                     Graduated: May, 2012

University of Idaho                                                              Moscow, Idaho
College of Law                                                            August 2014 – May 2015



SKILLS AND QUALIFICATIONS

Active Listening Skills
    •   Understanding the message, comprehending the information, and responding thoughtfully.
    •   Value listening to needs, and expectations.
    •   Problem solving and executing solutions.
    •   Ability to focus completely on the person I am speaking with.

Communications Skills
   • Effectively communicating ideas and feelings.
   • Active listening, acknowledgement of other perspective, caring for the effects of any
     situation, taking action for a solution, and empathizing with others.
   • Confidently communicating with anyone I am working with.
Problem Solving Skills
    • Identify the cause of the issue and understand it fully.
    • Capacity to analyze the problem, consulting colleagues and experts, and finding
       effective solutions.
    • Communication problems with other, and working with a team to find solutions.



EMPLOYMENT
Acquire Tax Credits                                           South Jordan, Utah
Tax Credit Specialist                                         March 2022 - Present
Security National                                             Cottonwood Heights, Utah
Loan Officer                                                  August 2018 – January 2022
Graystone Mortgage                                       Sandy, Utah
Loan Officer                                             May 2018– August 2018

Elevate Mortgage a division of Low VA Rates              Salt Lake City, Utah
Loan Officer                                             June 2017 – May 2018

FHU                                                      Midvale, Utah
Support Staff – Immigration work                         January 2017 – June 2017

Moose Lounge                                             Salt Lake City, Utah
General Manager                                          May 2015 – December 2016

University of Idaho                                       Moscow, Idaho
Law Student                                               August 2014 – May 2015

Gordon Bierch                                             Salt Lake City Airport, Utah
Restaurant Supervisor                                     November, 2012 – August 2014

Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee (D.C.C.C.)    Salt Lake City, Utah
Latino Outreach – Volunteer Coordinator                   June, 2012 – October 2012

Club Bliss                                               Salt Lake City, Utah
General Manager                                          March, 2008 – December 2010

Club Sound / In The Venue                                Salt Lake City, Utah
Special Events Director                                  Jan, 2010 – Dec 2013
                                                         March, 2003 – March 2008

West High                                                Salt Lake City, Utah
Freshman Basketball Coach                                Sept 2000 – Dec 2002




801.671.1154                                              PAUL_S_SANCHEZ@HOTMAIL.COM
                                     RESOLUTION NO. R2023-____


   A RESOLUTION OF THE SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL AMENDING THE 2023-2024
                            FISCAL YEAR BUDGET

        WHEREAS, the South Salt Lake City Council (the “Council”) met in regular session on October
11, 2023, to consider, among other things, amending the budget for the 2023-2024 fiscal year; and
         WHEREAS, Utah Code § 10-6-127 enables the City to review the individual budgets of the funds
set forth in the City’s budget; and
         WHEREAS, Utah Code § 10-6-128 allows the Council to adopt budget amendments by
resolution or ordinance following a public hearing; and
        WHEREAS, the Finance Director has prepared and filed with the City Recorder the proposed
amendments, which are attached, and has submitted the same to the Council for its review and for the
public review; and
        WHEREAS, the amendments to the budget were the proper subject at a duly noticed public
hearing and all interested persons in attendance at the public hearing were given the opportunity to be
heard for or against, amending the budget for the 2023-2024 fiscal year; and
       WHEREAS, the amendments conform to the requirements of the Utah Uniform Fiscal Procedures
Act and Council finds it has satisfied all legal requirements required to amend a budget;
        NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the City Council of the City of South Salt Lake as
follows:
SECTION I: The budget amendments attached hereto and incorporated herein by this reference are
hereby adopted and incorporated into the budget for the City for the fiscal year commencing July 1, 2023
and ending June 30, 2024.
SECTION II: Pursuant to Utah Code Ann. 10-6-118, a copy of the Budget for each fund within the
Budget shall be certified by the Budget Officer and it is hereby directed that the Budget be filed with the
State Auditor and in the Office of the City recorder and shall be available to the public in accordance with
the law.
SECTION III: If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of this ordinance is, for any
reason, held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, such provision shall be
deemed a separate, distinct, and independent provision, and such holding shall not affect the validity of
the remaining portions of this ordinance.
SECTION IV. This ordinance shall become effective upon Mayor’s signature and publication, or after
fifteen days of transmission to the office of the Mayor if neither approved nor disapproved by the Mayor,
and thereafter, publication.

                                (remainder of page intentionally left blank)

                                     (signatures appear on next page)
                                                     Adopted this   day of ______________, 2023.


                                                     BY THE CITY COUNCIL:


                                                     ___________________________________
                                                     Sharla Bynum, Council Chair

ATTEST:


_____________________________________
Ariel Andrus, City Recorder


City Council Vote as Recorded:
Bynum
Huff
Mila
Pinkney
Thomas
Williams



Transmitted to the Mayor’s office on this   day of                        2023.



        Ariel Andrus, City Recorder


MAYOR’S ACTION:


Dated this              day of                       , 2023.



Cherie Wood, Mayor


ATTEST:


Ariel Andrus, City Recorder
Amendments to the City of South Salt Lake Budget for the Fiscal Year
                           2023-2024
