                                  South Salt Lake City Council
                                  REGULAR MEETING AGENDA

  Public notice is hereby given that the South Salt Lake City Council will hold a Regular Meeting on
  Wednesday, June 7, 2023, in the City Council Chambers, 220 East Morris Avenue, Suite 200,
  commencing at 7:00 p.m., or as soon thereafter as possible.

  To watch the meeting live click the link below to join:
  https://zoom.us/j/99535083539?pwd=VHJKVlVBRjNRVEpXZG9kUWdtbnhHdz09
  Passcode: 803352

  Watch recorded City Council meetings at sslc.gov

  Conducting                                                            Natalie Pinkney, At-Large
  Council Chair                                                         Sharla Bynum, District 3
  Sergeant at Arms                                                      South Salt Lake PD

  Opening Ceremonies
     1. Welcome/Introductions                                           Natalie Pinkney
     2. Serious Moment of Reflection/ Pledge of Allegiance              Sharla Bynum

 No Action Comments
     1. Scheduling                                                   City Recorder
     2. Public Comments/Questions
             a. Response to Comments/Questions
                (at the discretion of the conducting Council Member)
     3. Mayor Comments
     4. City Attorney Comments
     5. City Council Comments
     6. Information – Municipal Wastewater Planning Program          Tory Laws
         (MWPP)Annual Report for the year ending 2022

Action Items

       Unfinished Business

      1. A Resolution of the South Salt Lake City Council               Eliza Ungricht
         Authorizing the City to Enter into and Execute
         a Development Agreement with CW the Monroe, LLC
         for the Development of a Townhome Project located
         at 547-617 East 3900 South

      2. An Ordinance of the South Salt Lake City Council               Eliza Ungricht
         to Amend the South Salt Lake Zoning Map for
         Property located at 547-617 East 3900 South,
         Currently a Mixed Use Zone, to Include a Townhome
         Overlay (TO)




See page two for continuation of Agenda
South Salt Lake City Council Regular Meeting                         June 7, 2023 Page 2


      3. An Ordinance of the South Salt Lake City Council              Sharen Hauri
         Amending Section 3.11.110 of the South Salt Lake
         City Municipal Code to Modify Fees Relating to Parks
         and Community Centers in South Salt Lake City and to
         Update Names of Certain City Owned Facilities.




Motion for Closed Meeting

Adjourn

Posted June 2, 2023

Those needing auxiliary communicative aids or other services for this meeting should contact
Ariel Andrus at 801-483-6019, giving at least 24 hours’ notice.

In accordance with State Statute and Council Policy, one or more Council Members may be connected
electronically.

                                    Public Comments/Question Policy
Time is made available for anyone in the audience to address the Council and/or Mayor concerning
matters pertaining to City business. When a member of the audience addresses the Council and/or
Mayor, they will come to the podium and state their name and City they reside. The Public will be asked
to limit their remarks/questions to three (3) minutes each. The conducting Council Member shall have
discretion as to who will respond to a comment/question. In all cases the criteria for response will be
that comments/questions must be pertinent to City business, that there are no argumentative questions
and no personal attacks. Some comments/questions may have to wait for a response until the next
regular council meeting. The conducting Council Member will inform a citizen when they have used the
allotted time. Grievances by City employees must be processed in accordance with adopted personnel
rules.

Have a question or concern? Call the connect line 801-464-6757 or email connect@sslc.gov
            Municipal Wastewater Planning Program (MWPP)
                             Annual Report
                       for the year ending 2022
                       SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY


   Thank you for filling out the reqested information. Please let DWQ know
                             when it is approved by the Council.
     Please download a copy of your form by clicking "Download
                           PDF" below.



Below is a summary of your                                           Download PDF
responses




                                SUBMIT BY APRIL 15, 2023



Are you the person responsible for completing this report for your
organization?


   Yes

   No



This is the current information recorded for your facility:


        Facility Name:          SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY

   Contact - First Name:                 Tory

   Contact - Last Name:                 Laws

        Contact - Title            WW Division Mgr.
    Contact - Phone:            801-412-3235

    Contact - Email:            tlaws@sslc.gov



Is this information above complete and correct?

  Yes

  No



Your wastewater system is described as Collection & Financial:

Classification: COLLECTION
Grade: II

                                  (if applicable)
Classification: -
Grade: -

Is this correct?
WARNING: If you select 'no', you will no longer have access to this form upon
clicking Save & Continue. DWQ will update the information and contact you
again.

  Yes
  No



Click on a link below to view a previous year's examples of sections in the
survey:
(Your wastewater system is described as Collection & Financial)

MWPP Collection System.pdf
MWPP Discharging Lagoon.pdf
MWPP Financial Evaluation.pdf
MWPP Mechanical Plant.pdf
MWPP Non-Discharging Lagoon.pdf



Will multiple people be required to fill out this form?
 Yes

 No




                     Financial Evaluation Section


Form completed by:


Tory Laws



                   Part I: GENERAL QUESTIONS
                                                 Yes          No


 Are sewer revenues maintained in a dedicated
 purpose enterprise/district account?




                                                 Yes          No


 Are you collecting 95% or more of your
 anticipated sewer revenue?

 Are Debt Service Reserve Fund6 requirements
 being met?




What was the annual average User Charge 16 for 2022?


37



Do you have a water and/or sewer customer assistance program * (CAP)?
Yes
No



       Part II: OPERATING REVENUES AND RESERVES
                                                   Yes   No


Are property taxes or other assessments
applied to the sewer systems15?




                                                   Yes   No


Are sewer revenues 14 sufficient to cover
operations & maintenance costs9, and repair &
replacement costs12 (OM&R) at this time?

Are projected sewer revenues sufficient to cover
OM&R costs for the next five years?

Does the sewer system have sufficient staff to
provide proper OM&R?

Has a repair and replacement sinking fund13
been established for the sewer system?

Is the repair & replacement sinking fund
sufficient to meet anticipated needs?




      Part III: CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS REVENUES AND
                          RESERVES
                                                   Yes   No


Are sewer revenues sufficient to cover all costs
of current capital improvements3 projects?

Has a Capital Improvements Reserve Fund 4
been established to provide for anticipated
  capital improvement projects?
                                                      Yes             No

  Are projected Capital Improvements Reserve
  Funds sufficient for the next five years?

  Are projected Capital Improvements Reserve
  Funds sufficient for the next ten years?

  Are projected Capital Improvements Reserve
  Funds sufficient for the next twenty years?




             Part IV: FISCAL SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW
                                                      Yes             No


  Have you completed a Rate Study11 within the
  last five years?

  Do you charge Impact fees8?



2022 Impact Fee (if not a flat fee, use average of all collected fees) =


$2,259




                                                      Yes             No


  Have you completed an Impact Fee Study in
  accordance with UCA 11-36a-3 within the last
  five years?

  Do you maintain a Plan of
  Operations10?

  Have you updated your Capital Facility Plan2
  within the last five years?
                                                    Yes       No


 Do you use an Asset Management1 system for
 your sewer systems?



Describe the Asset Management System (check all that apply)

 Spreadsheet
 GIS
 Accounting Software
 Specialized Software
 Other




                                                    Yes       No


 Do you know the total replacement cost of
 your sewer system capital assets?



2022 Replacement Cost =


$85,000,000




                                                    Yes       No


 Do you fund sewer system capital
 improvements annually with sewer revenues
 at 2% or more of the total replacement cost?

 What is the sewer/treatment system annual
 asset renewal* cost as a percentage of its total
 replacement cost?
 What is the sewer/treatment system annual asset renewal * cost as a
 percentage of its total replacement cost?


  250,000



        Part V: PROJECTED CAPITAL INVESTMENT COSTS

 Cost of projected capital improvements

                                           Cost                    Purpose of Improvements


                                    Please enter a valid                        New       Increase
                                                           Replace/Restore
                                     numerical value                         Technology   Capacity


2023                                      250,000

2023 thru 2027                          18,000,000

2028 thru 2032                           1,000,000

2033 thru 2037                           1,500,000

2038 thru 2042                           2,000,000




                           This is the end of the Financial questions




 To the best of my knowledge, the Financial section is completed and
 accurate.


          Yes




                           Collections System Section


 Form completed by:
 May Receive Continuing Education /units (CEUs)
Tory Laws



                   Part I: SYSTEM DESCRIPTION


What is the largest diameter pipe in the collection system (diameter in
inches)?


30



What is the average depth of the collection system (in feet)?


5



What is the total length of sewer pipe in the system (length in miles)?


33



How many lift/pump stations are in the collection system?


3



What is the largest capacity lift/pump station in the collection system
(design capacity in gallons per minute)?


4800



Do seasonal daily peak flows exceed the average peak daily flow by 100
percent or more?

    Yes
    No



What year was your collection system first constructed (approximately)?
1939



In what year was the largest diameter sewer pipe in the collection system
constructed, replaced or renewed? (If more than one, cite the oldest)


2006



                       PART II: DISCHARGES


How many days last year was there a sewage bypass, overflow or
basement flooding in the system due to rain or snowmelt?


1



How many days last year was there a sewage bypass, overflow or
basement flooding due to equipment failure (except plugged laterals)?


0



The Utah Sewer Management Program defines two classes of sanitary sewer
overflows (SSOs):

Class 1- a Significant SSO means a SSO or backup that is not caused by a
private lateral obstruction or problem that:
    (a) affects more than five private structures;
    (b) affects one or more public, commercial or industrial structure(s);
    (c) may result in a public health risk to the general public;
    (d) has a spill volume that exceeds 5,000 gallons, excluding those in
    single private structures; or
    (e) discharges to Waters of the state.

Class 2 - a Non-Significant SSO means a SSO or backup that is not caused
by a private lateral obstruction or problem that does not meet the Class 1
SSO criteria.



Below include the number of SSOs that occurred in year: 2022

                                                           Number


  Number of Class 1 SSOs in Calendar
                                                             0
  year

  Number of Class 2 SSOs in Calendar
                                                             1
  year



Please indicate what caused the SSO(s) in the previous question.


A buildup of flushable wipes caused a complete blockage.



Please specify whether the SSOs were caused by contract or tributary
community, etc.


None



                    Part III: NEW DEVELOPMENT


Did an industry or other development enter the community or expand
production in the past two years, such that flow or wastewater loadings to
the sewerage system increased by 10% or more?

  Yes
  No



Are new developments (industrial, commercial, or residential) anticipated
in the next 2 - 3 years that will increase flow or BOD5 loadings to the
sewerage system by 25% or more?

  Yes
    No



Number of new commercial/industrial connections in the last year


2



Number of new residential sewer connections added in the last year


2



Equivalent residential connections 7 served


2,608



              Part IV: OPERATOR CERTIFICATION


How many collection system operators do you employ?


5



Approximate population served


9,000



State of Utah Administrative Rules requires all public system operators
considered to be in Direct Responsible Charge (DRC) to be appropriately
certified at least at the Facility's Grade.



List the designated Chief Operator/DRC for the Collection System below:

                          Name                Grade          Email
                                 First and Last Name
                                         Name              Grade            Please enter Email
                                                                                         full email address


Chief Operator/DRC               First and
                                       ToryLast
                                            LawsName       IV               Please enter full email address
                                                                                   tlaws@sslc.gov




 List all other Collection System operators with DRC responsibilities in the
 field, by certification grade, separate names by commas:

                                                                        Name


                                                                 separate by comma


SLS17 Grade I:


Collection Grade I:


Collection Grade II:                                   Mike Myers, Mike Packer, Corby Talbot

Collection Grade III:


Collection Grade IV:                                            Tory Laws, Corby Talbot




 List all other Collection System operators by certification grade, separate
 names by commas:

                                                                                   Name


                                                                            separate by comma


SLS17 Grade I:


Collection Grade I:


Collection Grade II:


Collection Grade III:


Collection Grade IV:


No Current Collection Certification:                                    Micah Semon, Jacob Hegvik




 Is/are your collection DRC operator(s) currently certified at the appropriate
 grade for this facility?

    Yes
No



                 Part V: FACILITY MAINTENANCE
                                                   Yes   No


Have you implemented a preventative
maintenance program for your collection
system?

Have you updated the collection system
operations and maintenance manual within
the past 5 years?

Do you have a written emergency response
plan for sewer systems?

Do you have a written safety plan for sewer
systems?

Is the entire collections system TV inspected at
least every 5 years?

Is at least 85% of the collections system
mapped in GIS?




                       Part VI: SSMP EVALUATION
                                                   Yes   No


Has your system completed a Sewer System
Management Plan (SSMP)?

Has the SSMP been adopted by the
permittee’s governing body at a public
meeting?

Has the completed SSMP been public
noticed?

During the annual assessment of the SSMP,
were any adjustments needed based on the
performance of the plan?
                                                              Yes             No



Date of Public Notice


04/01/2016



During 2022, was any part of the SSMP audited as part of the five year
audit?

  Yes
  No



If yes, what part of the SSMP was audited and were changes made to the
SSMP as a result of the audit?


Capacity Plan



Have you completed a System Evaluation and Capacity Assurance Plan
(SECAP) as defined by the Utah Sewer Management Program?

  Yes
  No



                  Part VII: NARRATIVE EVALUATION
                This section should be completed with the system operators.




Describe the physical condition of the sewerage system: (lift stations, etc.
included)


60% clay pipe in fair condition. 40% Plastic or lined pipe in good condition , 3
wastewater pump stations fair/good condition



What sewerage system capital improvements 3 does the utility need to
implement in the next 10 years?


several line capacity up sizing and a new pump station to handle increased flows
from new development.



What sewerage system problems, other than plugging, have you had over
the last year?


Grease build up around industrial areas



Is your utility currently preparing or updating its capital facilities plan 2?

  Yes
  No



Does the municipality/district pay for the continuing education expenses of
operators?

  100% Covered
  Partially cover
  Does not pay



Is there a written policy regarding continuing education and training for
wastewater operators?

  Yes
  No



Any additional comments?


In the process of upsizing multiple lines and pump station to accommodate future
growth.



                    This is the end of the Collections System questions
To the best of my knowledge, the Collections System section is completed
and accurate.


        Yes




I have reviewed this report and to the best of my knowledge the
information provided in this report is correct.




  ×
                                                 clear




Has this been adopted by the council? If no, what date will it be presented
to the council?

  Yes

  No



What date will it be presented to the council?
Date format ex. mm/dd/yyyy


06/07/2023



Please log in.


Email



PIN
NOTE: This questionnaire has been compiled for your benefit to assist you in evaluating the technical and financial
needs of your wastewater systems. Completion of the collection section meets the annual reporting requirement for
the USMP. If you received financial assistance from the Water Quality Board, annual submittal of this report is a
condition of that assistance. Please answer questions as accurately as possible to give you the best evaluation of
your facility. If you need assistance, please send an email to wqinfodata@utah.gov and we will contact you as soon
as possible. You may also visit our Frequently Asked Questions page.


                                             Powered by Qualtrics A
                               RESOLUTION NO. R2023-_____

       A RESOLUTION OF THE SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL
       AUTHORIZING THE CITY TO ENTER INTO AND EXECUTE A
       DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT WITH CW THE MONROE, LLC FOR THE
       DEVELOPMENT OF A TOWNHOME PROJECT LOCATED AT 547-617 EAST
       3900 SOUTH.

        WHEREAS, the City Council is authorized by Utah Code Ann. §§ 10-9a-102 and 10-9a-
532 to enact ordinances, resolutions, and rules and enter into other forms of land use controls and
development agreements as necessary and appropriate for the use and development of land within
the City; and

        WHEREAS, an application for a zoning map amendment has been submitted to the City
for review and consideration to amend the South Salt Lake City Zoning Map to include the
Townhome Overlay (TO) District to the properties located at 547-617 East 3900 South; and

       WHEREAS, South Salt Lake City Municipal Code 17.03.270 requires, as a condition
precedent to a rezone to the Townhome Overlay District, that a development agreement be
executed by the applicant, property owner, developer and the City; and

        WHEREAS, the City Council finds that the Development Agreement, attached herein as
Exhibit A, adequately addresses CW THE MONROE, LLC’s commitments to the City including
project design, community management and development;

       NOW THEREFORE, Be It Resolved, by the City Council of the City of South Salt Lake,
pursuant to Utah Code Ann. §§ 10-9-a-102 and 10-9a-532, it approves the Development
Agreement in the attached Exhibit A and authorizes the Mayor to sign on behalf of the City.

       The effective date of the Agreement shall be the date as indicated in the Agreement.




                               (signatures appear on separate page)




                                              Page 1
 DATED this        day of _________ 2023.


                                            BY THE CITY:

                                            Sharla Bynum, Council Chair




 City Council Vote as Recorded:
        Bynum
        Huff
        Mila
        Pinkney
        Siwik
        Thomas
        Williams



ATTEST:


Ariel Andrus, City Recorder




                                             Page 2
       Exhibit A

Development Agreement

(appears on separate page)




          Page 3
WHEN RECORDED RETURN TO:
South Salt Lake City
Attn: Ariel Andrus, City Recorder
220 East Morris Avenue
South Salt Lake, UT 84115

                               DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT

        DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT (the “Agreement”) is entered into this _____ day of
_____________, 2023, by and among the undersigned entities involved in the development and
construction of the subject project (collectively, the “Developer”) and SOUTH SALT LAKE
CITY, a municipality and political subdivision of the State of Utah (the “City”). Developer and
the City are hereinafter sometimes referred to individually as a “Party” or collectively as the
“Parties”.

                                           RECITALS

        A.      Developer is the owner, developer, and/or builder of real property located at
approximately 547-617 East 3900 South, located within the boundaries of the City as more
particularly described in “Exhibit A” (the “Property”).

        B.      A subdivision plat has been approved by the City to divide the Property into 61
lots with cross-access easements as more fully described in the subdivision plat attached hereto
as “Exhibit B.”

        C.      Developer desires to proceed with a project that will consist of 3 live/work
buildings, 6 residential-only townhome buildings (containing a total of 56 townhome units), and
related improvements as depicted on the site plan attached hereto as “Exhibit C” (the “Project”).

        D.      The City desires to ensure realization of a product substantially the same in
architectural style and configuration as was proposed in application materials (shown in the
images below):




                                              Page 4
Page 5
       E.     The City Council desires to ensure that the Project does not generate offsite
parking impacts—as other developments have caused—by requiring two-car garages for every
Townhome Unit and additional Commercial and guest parking within the project.

       F.      In order to accomplish their respective goals and objectives, the Parties hereby
agree as follows:

                                              AGREEMENT

       NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants contained herein, and
other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby
acknowledged, the Parties hereby agree as follows:

1.     Incorporation of Recitals. The Recitals and Exhibits are hereby incorporated by
reference as part of this Agreement.

2.      Project Aesthetics. Developer agrees to construct a Project substantially the same in
architectural style, color palette, and configuration as depicted in Recital D, above. The City
acknowledges that: the proposed live/work buildings to be constructed on Lots 1-8, 16-21, 28-32,
and will be 3 stories (on and above grade), comprising 19 residential dwelling units and 19
ground floor live/work units; and 6, 3-story residential-only townhome buildings, comprising 37
townhome units on individual lots. The Parties acknowledge that all applicable requirements of
the South Salt Lake City Municipal Code apply to the Project.

3.      Residential Parking. Developer agrees to require—in a form reasonably satisfactory to
the City Attorney— that each of the residential tenants of the Project as use of the attached two-
car garage as part of their residential lease, in order to discourage tenants from parking offsite in
the areas surrounding the Project.

4.      Recordation of Plat. In exchange for Developer’s promised adherence to the proposed
Project aesthetics as set forth in Section 2 above and the residential parking restrictions set forth
in Section 3 above, the City shall record the final approved subdivision plat for the Project.

5.     Successors and Assigns.

       5.1.    Binding Effect. This Agreement shall be binding upon all successors and assigns
of Developer in the ownership or development of any Lot or other portion of the Project or
Property, as applicable.

        5.2.    Assignment. Except as provided herein, none of the provisions, terms, conditions,
benefits, or burdens contained in this Agreement may be severed from this Agreement and any
assignment to any other party, individual, or entity may not be made without the prior written
consent of the City, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned, or delayed.



                                                Page 6
Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing herein shall preclude: (a) a collateral assignment of this
Agreement to first priority mortgage lenders providing construction and development financing
for the Project, or portion thereof, or (b) the sale or transfer of one or more Lots to affiliates of
the Developer or others; provided, that the obligations contained in this Agreement and
applicable to such Lot or Lots sold or transferred shall be binding upon the successor owners
thereof. Any such request for assignment may be made by letter addressed to the City as
provided herein and the prior written consent of the City may also be evidenced by letter from
the City to Developer or its successors or assigns. The assignment of the Project shall require the
assignee to sign a form of acknowledgement and consent agreeing to be bound by the terms of
this Agreement.

6.     Default.

        6.1.   Notice. If Developer or the City fail to perform their respective obligations
hereunder or to comply with the terms hereof, the party believing that a default has occurred
shall provide notice to the other party as provided herein. If the City believes that the default has
been committed by Developer, then the City shall also provide a courtesy copy of the notice to
Developer.

       6.2.    Contents of the Notice of Default. The Notice of Default shall:

               6.2.1. Claim of Default. Specify the claimed event of default;

               6.2.2. Identification of Provisions. Identify with particularity the provisions of
       any applicable law, rule, regulation, or provision of this Agreement that is claimed to be
       in default;

               6.2.3. Specify Materiality. Identify why the default is claimed to be material;
       and

              6.2.4. Optional Proposed Cure. If the City chooses, in its discretion, it may
       propose a method and time for curing the default, which shall be of no less than sixty (60)
       days duration.

        6.3.   Meet and Confer. Upon the issuance of a Notice of Default, the Parties shall
meet within ten (10) business days and confer in an attempt to resolve the issues that are the
subject matter of the Notice of Default.

        6.4.    Remedies. If, after meeting and conferring, the Parties are not able to resolve the
default, then the Parties may have the following remedies:

               6.4.1. Legal Remedies. The rights and remedies available at law and in equity,
       including, but not limited to injunctive relief, specific performance and termination, but
       not including damages or attorney’s fees.


                                                Page 7
               6.4.2. Enforcement of Security. The right to draw on any security posted or
       provided in connection with the Project and relating to remedying of the particular
       default.

              6.4.3. Withholding Further Development Approvals and Suspending
       Business License. The right to withhold all further reviews, approvals, licenses, building
       permits, and/or other permits for future development on the Property.

       6.5.    Extended Cure Period. If any default cannot be reasonably cured within sixty
(60) days then such cure period may be extended as needed, by agreement of the Parties for good
cause shown, so long as the defaulting party is pursuing a cure with reasonable diligence.

       6.6.    Cumulative Rights. The rights and remedies set forth herein shall be cumulative.

        6.7.    Force Majeure. All time period imposed or permitted pursuant to this Agreement
shall automatically be extended and tolled for: (a) period of any and all moratoria imposed by the
City or other governmental authorities in any respect that materially affects the development of
the Project; or (b) by events reasonably beyond the control of Developer including, without
limitation, inclement weather, war, strikes, unavailability of materials at commercially
reasonable prices, and acts of God, but which does not include financial condition of the
Developer or its successors.

7.      Notices. Any notices, requests and demands required or desired to be given hereunder
shall be in writing and shall be served personally upon the Party for whom intended or if mailed
be by certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid to such Party at its address shown
below:

               To:

               With a copy to:
               C.W. Urban
               Attn: Walker Wood
               610 N 800 W
               Centerville, UT 84014




                                              Page 8
               To City:

               South Salt Lake City
               Attn:
               City Attorney
               220 East Morris Avenue, Suite 200
               South Salt Lake, Utah 84115

Any Party may change its address or notice by giving written notice to the other Parties in
accordance with the provisions of this Section.

8.     General Terms and Conditions.

       8.1.    Agreement to Run with the Land. This Agreement shall be recorded in the
Office of the Salt Lake County Recorder against the Property and is intended to and shall be
deemed to run with the land and shall be binding on all successors in the ownership and
development of any portion of the Property.

       8.2.    Entire Agreement. This Agreement, together with the Exhibits hereto, integrates
and constitutes all of the terms and conditions pertaining to the subject matter hereof and
supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, promises, inducements, or previous agreements
between the Parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof. Any amendments hereto
must be in writing and signed by the respective Parties hereto.

      8.3.    Headings. The headings contained in this Agreement are intended for
convenience only and are in no way to be used to construe or limit the text herein.

        8.4.    Non-Liability of City Officials or Employees. No officer, representative, agent,
or employee of the City shall be personally liable to Developer, or any successor-in-interest or
assignee of Developer, in the event of any default or breach by the City or for any amount, which
may become due to Developer, or its successors or assignees, for any obligation arising out of
the terms of this Agreement.

        8.5.    No Third-Party Rights. The obligations of the Parties set forth in this Agreement
shall not create any rights in or obligations to any persons or parties other than to the City,
Developer, and the Developer’s authorized successors, together with one or more first priority
mortgage lenders of the Project, or portions thereof who shall be deemed third-party
beneficiaries of this Agreement. The City, Developer, successors to the Developer, and the third-
party mortgage lender identified above, alone shall be entitled to enforce or waive any provisions
of this Agreement to the extent that such provisions are for their benefit.

         8.6.   Severability. Should any portion of this Agreement for any reason be declared
invalid or unenforceable, the invalidity or unenforceability of such portion shall not affect the
validity of any of the remaining portions, and the same shall be deemed in full force and effect as
if this Agreement had been executed with the invalid portions eliminated.


                                              Page 9
        8.7.   Waiver. No waiver of any of the provisions of this Agreement shall operate as a
waiver of any other provision regardless of any similarity that may exist between such
provisions, nor shall a waiver in one instance operate as a waiver in any future event. No waiver
shall be binding unless executed in writing by the waiving Party.

        8.8.    Survival. All agreements, covenants, representations, and warranties contained
herein shall survive the execution of this Agreement and shall continue in full force and effect
throughout the term of this Agreement.

         8.9.  Public Information. The Parties understand and agree that all documents related
to this agreement will be public documents, as provided in UTAH CODE ANN. § 63G-2-101, et
seq.

        8.10. Satisfaction of Obligations. At such time as the obligations of the Developer
contained in the Agreement have been satisfied, including the implementation of provisions
required by this Agreement into other agreements, declarations and/or covenants approved by the
City Attorney, upon the request of the Declarant and/or its authorized successors, the City shall
acknowledge in a form approved by the City Attorney suitable for recordation, that Declarant has
satisfied its obligations as set forth in this Agreement.

       8.11. Governing Law. This Agreement and the performance hereunder shall be
governed by the laws of the State of Utah.

        8.12. Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in multiple counter-parts, which
shall constitute one and the same document.


        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Agreement has been executed by South Salt Lake City,
acting by and through the South Salt Lake City Council, Salt Lake County, State of Utah,
pursuant to Resolution No.         , authorizing such execution, and by a duly authorized
representative of Developer as of the above-stated date.




                                                        SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, a Utah
                                                        municipality and political subdivision of the
                                                        State of Utah.


                                             By:
                                                        Chair, City Council




                                              Page 10
ATTEST:

____________________________
Ariel Andrus, South Salt Lake City Recorder


APPROVED AS TO FORM

___________________________________
Josh Collins, City Attorney




                                     DEVELOPER:

                                     CW THE MONROE, LLC, a Utah limited liability
                                     company


                                     By:
                                     Name: ____________________________________
                                     Title: _____________________________________


STATE OF UTAH       )
                    :ss.
COUNTY OF SALT LAKE )

       On the          day of                 , 2023, personally appeared before me
__________________________, who being duly sworn, did say that he is the _______________
of CW The Monroe, LLC, a Utah limited liability company, and that the foregoing instrument
was signed in behalf of said entity and said person duly acknowledged to me that he executed the
same for the purposes therein stated.

                                                        ______________________________
                                                        NOTARY PUBLIC




                                              Page 11
                                      CITY COUNCIL STAFF REPORT
MEETING DATE:   June 7, 2023
REQUEST(S):     A petition to the City Council to amend the zoning for properties located at 547-617 East
                3900 South, to include the Townhome Overlay (TO).
ADDRESS:        547-617 East 3900 South
PARCEL NUMBER:  16-31-429-006; 007; 008; 009; 010; 011; 019; 024
PROPERTY OWNER: CW The Monroe, LLC
APPLICANT:      C.W. Urban, Ian Cahoon, Representative
TYPE OF ITEM:   Legislative – Land Use Map Amendment
 PLANNING COMMISSION RECOMMENDATION:
 On April 20, 2023, the Planning Commission held a public hearing for this application. There were no public
 comments for this specific agenda item. The Planning Commission did have some safety concerns about the
 adjacent parking lot to the northwest. The Planning Commission unanimously forwarded a recommendation
 of approval to the City Council for the proposed zone change.

 STAFF RECOMMENDATION:
 Staff recommends that the City Council approve the application to amend the land use map to include the
 Townhome Overlay at this address. Staff’s recommendation is based upon its analysis and findings included
 in this staff report.

 SYNOPSIS:
 Amendments to the Land Use (Zoning) Map are legislative, and at the complete discretion of the City Council.
 The Planning Commission makes recommendations to the City Council on such applications. C.W. Urban is
 proposing redevelopment of eight existing parcels located at 547-617 East 3900 South. In order to redevelop,
 the applicant is making two requests:

  1. A petition to the Planning Commission for
     preliminary plat approval, and then final
     plat approval for a 61-lot townhome
     subdivision located at 547-617 East 3900
     South. The 61 lots include the 56 dwelling
     units and the 5 common space lots.

  2. A petition to the Planning Commission for a
     recommendation of approval to the City
     Council to amend the zoning to include the
     Townhome Overlay.

 The subject property currently has no existing
 buildings or structures. The applicant intends to
 construct nine townhome buildings containing
 56 dwelling units and common amenity space for the property owners. They are also proposing to have 19 of
 the 56 units be live/work units, which will provide a ground floor commercial space that can be used by the
 tenant. Some of the uses that would be permitted in the Mixed Use land use district are retail, art studio, art
 gallery, and hair salons.

 The Planning Commission is the advisory body to make recommendations to the City Council on all zoning
 map amendments.
 EXISTING ZONING           EXISTING USE              PROPOSED USES                    PROPERTY ACCESS
      Mixed Use             Vacant Land            Residential Townhomes                  3900 South
                                                       1
                                  CITY COUNCIL STAFF REPORT

GENERAL INFORMATION:
Location:                         547 East 3900 South
                                  561 East 3900 South
                                  567 East 3900 South
                                  571 East 3900 South
                                  585 East 3900 South
                                  595 East 3900 South
                                  617 East 3900 South
Proposed Project Size:            Approx.: 3.98 acres
Surrounding Land Use Districts:   North: Mixed Use
                                  South: Medium Density Residential Zone (Millcreek City)
                                  East: Mixed Use
                                  West: School (Granite Peaks Adult Education serves adult learners via
                                  teaching English classes, GED preparation, adult high school diploma
                                  courses, etc.)

Figure 1: Existing Zoning and Proposed Townhome Overlay District




                                                 2
Figure 2: Existing Site Conditions




Figure 3: Proposed Renderings




                                     3
4
Figure 4: Applicant’s Conceptual Site Plan **Final Plat in attachments**




                                                     5
Figure 5: ALTA Survey




GENERAL PLAN CONSIDERATIONS:

Community Values Goal 1. Ensure that existing and new development has equitable access to all service and
amenities in South Salt Lake.

       Analysis: The proposed development meets all of the required unit, general, recreational, and energy
       efficiency amenities.

Community Values Goal 2. Support neighborhood livability by creating pedestrian, bike, and play environments
appropriate to the surrounding housing types.

       Analysis: The proposed development will add to the livability of the area by adding new sidewalks,
       streets, and play environments within the development. This project will also improve the sidewalk and
       walkability along 3900 South.

Community Values Goal 3. Take advantage of opportunities relating to the city’s location at the center of the
regional transportation, transit, trails, open space, library, recreation, and school systems to serve residents,
businesses, and visitors.

                                                       6
       Analysis: The proposed development is located nearby multiple bus stops, I-15, 700 East, and State
       Street. It is also a little over a mile to the new Granite Library.

Land Use & Neighborhoods Goal 1. Continue to welcome new residents and businesses into South Salt Lake.

       Analysis: The proposed development will create 56 new housing units, which will bring new residents to
       South Salt Lake.

Housing Goals Strategy 3. Encourage the development of housing that ranges in size and scale to accommodate
the needs of all residents.

       Analysis: The proposed development will include 19 live/work units. The project will also have 2-bedroom
       and 3-bedroom units. The live/work units and the traditional units with the different number of bedrooms
       will help accommodate the different needs of residents in the city. The live/work units will also allow
       residents to have a commercial space that they can use for their own business. Some of the uses that
       would be permitted in the Mixed Use land use district are retail, art studio, art gallery, and hair salons.

Housing Goals Strategy 5. Ensure that all residents have access to retail, services, and neighborhood amenities
that are easily and safely accessible by foot, bike, or transit.

       Analysis: The proposed development will include 19 live work units. The live/work units will allow the
       owners to have a commercial space on the ground floor of their unit. Some of the uses that would be
       permitted in the Mixed Use land use district are retail, art studio, art gallery, and hair salons. There is also
       multiple restaurants, retail shops, and that are accessible by foot, bike, and transit.

Economic Development Strategy 3. Encourage development and preservation of neighborhood-based shops
and services in strategic locations.

       Analysis: The proposed development will have 19 live/work units in three of the buildings. Some of the
       uses that would be permitted in the Mixed Use land use district are retail, art studio, art gallery, and hair
       salons. The 19 units will help encourage and bring in neighborhood-based retail that will benefit all the
       residents in the area.

ORDINANCE ANALYSIS:


                Ordinance                                     Complies                       Notes / Insufficiency
                                               Title 17 – Land Use
17.03.260 – Townhome Overlay (TO) District
A. The minimum area for Townhome           The proposed townhome
   Project Development is one (1)          development area is 3.98 continuous
   contiguous acre.                        acres.
B. The minimum width of any Lot or         The proposed townhome project has
   Parcel for a Townhome Project           the following dimensions:
   Development is 128 feet at all points       • North side – approx. 260 feet
   along the length of the property.           • South side – approx. 600 feet
                                               • East side – approx. 407 feet
                                               • West side – approx. 142 feet
C. The maximum Building Height for any The proposed building height for all of
   Structure is based on the Traditional 2 the buildings is approximately 32 feet,
   Story, Traditional 3 Story, Live/Work which complies with the 40-foot
   Townhome,       and     Urban     Style maximum.
   Townhome, as detailed in Chapter
   17.07. (40’)

                                                          7
D. Required Setback/Build-To Standards:      The proposed site plan has the
   • Front Yard: 10’                         following setbacks:
   • Corner Side: 10’                          • Frontage: The front setback
   • Perimeter: 10’ to SF; 8’ to non-SF           varies, but the minimum smallest
   • Building Separation: 20’ between             setback is 19 feet.
     buildings; 45’ on street radius           • Perimeter:       The     perimeter
                                                  setbacks vary, but the smallest
                                                  setback is 8.5 feet. There are no
                                                  adjacent single-family houses.
E. The minimum width of each Dwelling        All proposed units are at least 22’
   Unit and each commercial storefront is    wide.
   22 feet.
F. Each Townhome Development shall           The proposed subdivision plat
   be subdivided into individual lots for    includes individual subdivided lots for
   each Dwelling Unit or into individual     each unit and common area.
   condominium units for each Dwelling
   Unit, Commercial Unit, Common Area,
   and Limited Common Area.
G. Each rezone to the Townhome Overlay       As part of the rezone petition, the City   As part of the rezone
   District shall be preceded by an          Council will review a Development          petition, the City Council
   executed Development Agreement            Agreement (DA) for the subject             will        review      a
   among the Applicant, Property Owner,      property. The DA will establish the        Development Agreement
   Developer, and the City detailing the     proposed site plan and elevations and      (DA) for the subject
   specific Applicant, Property Owner,       will have a sunset clause on               property. The DA will
   and Developer commitments to the          entitlement, if construction and           establish the proposed
   City.                                     execution of the project does not          site plan and elevations
                                             commence.                                  and will have a sunset
                                                                                        clause of 180 days from
                                                                                        approval on entitlement,
                                                                                        if    construction    and
                                                                                        execution of the project
                                                                                        does not commence.
17.06.120 – General Provisions
                                             Access to the site will come from two
A. Adequate provision for ingress and
                                             drive approaches on 3900 South. The
   egress shall be provided at the time of
                                             City Engineer has reviewed and
   new site development.
                                             approved both the locations.
17.06.150 – Access Management
A. Vehicular access for Townhome Units       All units will have rear-loaded garages
   shall be rear loaded, either from an      from Secondary Internal Roads.
   Internal Primary Access Road, from a
   Secondary Internal Access Road, or on
   significant, platted Open Space.


17.06.160 – Parking Stall Requirements
A. 2 stalls per Dwelling Unit; 0.5 stalls    The project is required to have 112        To prevent overflow
   guest parking per Dwelling Unit; 3        stalls for the 56 dwelling units; 28       parking      on    adjacent
   spaces per 1000 square feet of ground     guest stalls; 9 stalls for the ground      properties, the applicant
   floor commercial space/workspace for      floor commercial/live/workspace. The       will    provide     signage
   Live/Work configuration                   project proposes 112 garage stalls for     showing the designated
                                             the 56 units; 41 surface stalls, which     stalls for the project.
                                             meets the required 28 guest stalls and
                                             the 9 stalls needed for the live/work
                                             units.
                                                       8
B. 90 degree parking stalls measure 9’ x All proposed stalls are 9’ by 20’.
   20’.
17.06.300 – Landscaping
A. Yards, Setbacks, Park Strips, required The proposed landscape plan
   Buffers, required Common Open complies with all required landscape
   Space, Usable Open Space, and standards. The proposed landscaping
   Parking Areas shall be landscaped as screens         ground     level    utility
   required in this Chapter. Landscaping equipment.
   shall be used to screen ground level
   utility equipment from view of Streets,
   sidewalks, or walkways to the greatest
   extent possible.
B. All required Landscaped Areas shall be The proposed landscape plan
   landscaped with suitable trees, shrubs, complies with all required landscape
   groundcovers, perennials, or other standards.
   Landscaping materials. Plants, not
   including tree canopies, shall cover at
   least 75% of required Landscaped
   Areas.
C. Trees are required every 20 feet in all There will be 99 trees planted that will
   Setback and Buffer areas, both sides of be located in the setback, buffer, and
   the Local Access street, in addition to other areas within the development.
   requirements for Yards, Open Space, This complies with the required
   and Parking Areas described in this landscaping.
   Chapter.
17.07.050 – General Design Review Considerations
A. Waste      Container    Enclosures   in The applicant is proposing five waste
   Townhome Developments shall be container enclosures. They are all
   located within 150 feet of each located at the end of the townhome
   Townhome building and shall be secondary road or near the secondary
   hidden from public view. All enclosures road.
   shall comply with Title 17 design
   standards.
17.07.080 – Townhome Building Forms/Development
A. Townhome Developments shall be          All units in the development comply
   oriented so that the Primary Façade of with this Primary Façade orientation
   each Building faces toward the          order.
   following order:
   a. public street;
   b. primary internal street; and
   c. park or other common open space.
B. Live/Work Townhome Buildings shall      The live/work units are all located
   be oriented so the commercial units     adjacent to 3900 South and are facing
   and the upper floors of Dwelling Units  3900 South.
   face toward the following order:
   a. public street;
   b. primary internal street; and
   c. park or other common open space.
C. Windows are required on at least 40% All building facades comply with the
   of each Façade of all Buildings.        40% window requirement.
D. Each Façade of every Building shall All building facades have the same
   display the same level of architectural level of architectural detail as the
   detail and transparency as the Primary primary facades.
   Façade.


                                                      9
E. Windows on the Primary Façade shall          All windows on the primary façade
   have a minimum transparency of 70%.          have a transparency of at least 70%
F. All windows on each Façade of every          All windows have the following
   Building shall incorporate at least two      features:
   of the following features:                     • Trim or molding at least four
   a. mullions and/or transoms;                       inches in width, and
   b. trim or molding at least four inches        • Recessed insets from the
       in width;                                      Primary Façade of at least two
   c. canopies, shutters, or awnings                  inches.
       proportional to window size; or
   d. recessed insets from the Primary
       Façade of at least two inches.
G. Primary materials (60% minimum)              The proposed primary materials that
   allowed: Brick, Wood, Board/Batter,          comprise more than 60% of each
   Stone, and Hardie Board. Secondary           façade are:
   materials (20% maximum) allowed:               • Hardie Board, and
   Stucco, Metal, and Split Faced Masonry         • Brick
   Block.                                       The proposed secondary material
                                                that comprises less than 20% of each
                                                façade is:
                                                Stucco
H. Developments that abut single-family         Not Applicable
   developments shall have a six-foot
   CMU wall for the length of the
   Townhome Development perimeter
   that abuts a single-family development.
I. Each townhome dwelling unit shall            All buildings have a vertical and
   incorporate a horizontal and vertical        horizontal offset every 22 feet. There
   wall offset every 22 feet with a             is also a roofline change and a
   minimum width of 6 feet; and at least        variation in the location and
   two of the following:                        proportion of front porches.
   a. a change in roofline;
   b. an offset in the primary façade of
        the dwelling unit of at least 2 feet;
   c. variation in the location and
        proportion of front Porches.
J. The Building Height for each                 The proposed building height for all of
   Townhome Building form is measured           the buildings is about 32 feet, which
   from Grade to the peak of the roof or,       complies with the 3-story 40-foot
   for flat-roofed Buildings, from Grade to     maximum.
   the top of the roof parapet. The
   maximum Building Height for a
   Live/Work Townhome sub-form is 40
   feet.
K. Roofs and overhangs shall comply with        All roofs and overhangs comply with
   the following standards:                     the standards listed.
   a. Pitched roofs covering the main
        body with a minimum 6:12 pitch.
   b. Shed roofs shall maintain a
        minimum pitch of 2:12 and all
        other roofs covering shall have a
        minimum pitch of 6:12.
   c. Overhanging eaves may expose
        rafters. Flush eaves shall be


                                                         10
       finished with profiled molding or
       gutters.
   d. Flat Roofs.
L. Each Unit shall have a covered,             Each unit has a covered, weather-
   weather-protected Porch that is the         protected porch that is the prominent
   prominent Architectural Element, and is     architectural element. All the porches
   least six feet deep.                        are 6 feet deep.
M. No Garage entrance shall be located         No proposed garages are located on
   on the Primary Façade of the Building.      the primary façade of the building. All
   All garage doors must accommodate           garages can fit two cars. The three
   two cars, parked side by side in the        design features that have been chosen
   garage. All garages must contain at         are:
   least three of the following design          1. garage doors that include
   features:                                        windows and are painted to
   a. garage doors that include windows             match the dwelling;
       and are painted to match the             2. ornamental light fixtures flanking
       dwelling;                                    the doors; and
   b. ornamental light fixtures flanking        3. roof line changes via a change in
       the doors;                                   material or;
   c. arbor or trellis;                         4. metal arbors above the garages
   d. dormers;
   e. eaves with exposed rafters with a
       minimum six-inch projection; o
   f. roof line changes.
N. All buildings adjacent to primary           All buildings adjacent to primary
   internal townhome roads must be             internal    townhome       roads    are
   separated from another by at least 45       separated by at least 45 feet. No
   feet. No secondary internal access road     secondary roads exceed 150 feet in
   may exceed 150 feet in length.              length.
O. 90% of all Dwelling Units shall be          All of the units have primary vehicular
   designed to provide vehicular access        access from a secondary road.
   from a Secondary Internal Access Road.
P. All Buildings shall include Usable Open     Over 20% of the development is
   Space equal to at least 20% of the          programmed and landscaped with
   Development site and shall include a        usable open space. This includes, but
   programmed and landscaped area. The         is not limited to a playground,
   Usable Open Space must be centrally         pickleball court, a dog park, and a
   located within the Project.                 community garden.
Q. Wall-mounted and ground-based               All utilities will be fully screened or
   meters, HVAC, and utility equipment         they are located on the sides and rear
   serving any Building shall:                 of the building.
   a. be fully screened from view or
       located to the sides or rear of the
       Building they serve;
   b. be placed in close proximity to one
       another; and
   c. shall not be located on any Façade
       on which a Unit's primary entrance
       is located.
R. Each Townhome Development shall             All sidewalks in the development are
   include concrete sidewalks; at least        5-feet wide. They connect to the right-
   five feet in width that connects each       of-way, amenity areas, and waste
   Dwelling Unit to each Townhome              containers. The internal primary
   Internal       Street,      right-of-way,   access road will connect to 3900
   commonly owned amenity, and waste           South.
   container. Each Internal Primary
                                                        11
   Access Road shall connect one Public
   Street to another.
17.07.100 – Required Amenities for Townhome Building Forms
A. At a minimum, all buildings shall         All units will include the required
   include the following amenities:          amenities.
   a. Full size washer and dryer;
   b. Nine-foot ceilings;
   c. Enhanced soundproofing;
   d. Upgraded countertops in kitchen
        and bathrooms (granite, marble,
        quartz, or equivalent);
   e. Stainless steel appliances.
B. Unit Features – Each development shall The six unit features that will be
   include six unit features amenities.      included are:
                                             1. Upgraded floor coverings
                                             2. Dishwasher
                                             3. Balcony on each unit (minimum 6
                                                 feet in depth, 70 square feet in
                                                 area)
                                             4. 220 Volt garage power for EV
                                                 Charging
                                             5. Smart Building Capabilities (Smart
                                                 Home Capabilities entails motion‐
                                                 censored light switches and Nest
                                                 Thermostats)
                                             6. High‐Speed Internet Access:
                                                 Google Fiber (2
                                                 Gigabyte/Second)
C. Common          Amenities    –       Each The applicant is proposing the
   development shall include eight following eight common amenity
   general amenities.                        features that will be included:
                                             1. Community Garden
                                             2. Sports court / field
                                             3. Outdoor dog park that is at least
                                                 1000 square feet
                                             4. Secure package room / package
                                                 lockers
                                             5. Grilling station and outdoor
                                                 pavilions
                                             6. Fire Pit
                                             7. Zen / Yoga Area
                                             8. Bike Storage and Repair
D. Energy Efficiency Enhancements – Each The six energy efficiency
   development shall include six energy enhancement features that will be
   efficiency enhancements.                  included are:
                                             1. Compliance with ENERGY STAR
                                                 New Homes Standard for
                                                 Buildings three stories or fewer
                                             2. Upgraded electrical in the
                                                 garages for electric vehicle
                                                 charging
                                             3. Installation of photovoltaic
                                                 panels, wind turbines, or other
                                                 electric generating renewable
                                                 energy source to provide at least

                                                     12
                                                20 percent of the project’s
                                                estimated electricity demand.
                                             4. Electric Vehicle Charging Stations
                                             5. Participation in a recycling
                                                program as part of a rental
                                                agreement or HOA
                                             6. Demonstrated compliance with
                                                any of the criteria listed in the Site
                                                Improvements, Water
                                                Conservation, or Energy
                                                Efficiency sections of the 2011
                                                Enterprise Green Communities
                                                Criteria

PLANNING COMMISSION RECOMMENDATION:
On April 20, 2023, the Planning Commission held a public hearing for this application. There were no public
comments for this specific agenda item. The Planning Commission did have some safety concerns about the
adjacent parking lot to the northwest. The Planning Commission unanimously forwarded a recommendation of
approval to the City Council for the proposed zone change.


STAFF RECOMMENDATION:
Based upon the information submitted in the application, supporting documentation, and analysis of the
relevant code sections and general plan goals, staff recommends that the City Council approve, with conditions,
to amend the South Salt Lake Zoning Map to include the Townhome Overlay and proposes the following
findings of fact and conclusions of law and conditions of approval:

Findings of Fact:

  1.  The subject properties, located at 547-617 East 3900 South, consist of eight separate parcels.
  2.  All eight parcels are located in the Mixed Use land use district.
  3.  The subject properties are currently vacant cleared land.
  4.  The proposed zoning map amendment is to add the Townhome Overlay (TO) to the existing zoning.
  5.  The proposed subdivision will subdivide eight parcels located at 547-617 East 3900 South.
  6.  The proposed subdivision will create 61-lots that will be 3.98 acres in size.
  7.  The property owner is applying for the subdivision and zoning amendment to construct a townhome
      development.
  8. The proposed development will be located in the Mixed Use and Townhome Overlay land use districts.
  9. The proposed building falls into the Dwelling, Townhome land use category.
  10. The Dwelling, Townhome use is a permitted land use in the Townhome Overlay.
  11. The proposed lot will be served by new vehicular and pedestrian access points on 3900 South.

  Conclusions of Law:

  1.   Amending the zoning map to include the Townhome Overlay (TO), is consistent with the South Salt Lake
       City General Plan.
  2.   The proposed development is compatible in use, scale, and design with the allowed uses in Mixed Use
       land use district and Townhome Overlay.
  3.   The use, as specifically conditioned below, does not compromise the health, safety, or welfare of: Persons
       employed within or using the proposed development; Those residing or working in the vicinity of the
       proposed use or development; or Property or improvements in the vicinity of the proposed use or
       development.
  4.   The use, as specifically conditioned below does not impose disproportionate burdens on the citizens of
       the city.

                                                      13
  5.   Staff has reviewed this zoning map amendment for compliance with SSL Municipal Code Sections
       17.03.270, 17.06 and 17.07, and found that this zoning map amendment complies with those sections, as
       outlined above.

  Conditions of Approval:

  1.   If approved, the petition for the zoning map amendment will not take effect until such time that the South
       Salt Lake Planning Commission grants the final plat approval of The Monroe subdivision plat and Center
       Square Subdivision plat, and said plats are recorded with the office of the Salt Lake County Recorder, with
       all appropriate cross access easements.
  2.   If approved and the applicant fails to record the final The Monroe subdivision plat and Center Square
       Subdivision plat within 180 days of final subdivision plat approval, the zoning map amendment petition
       approval is void.
  3.   If approved, the petition for the zoning map amendment will not take effect until such time that the
       Development Agreement is executed.
  4.   The Development Agreement shall have a sunset clause of 180 days from approval on entitlement, if
       construction and execution of the project does not commence.
  5.   To prevent overflow parking on adjacent properties, the applicant shall provide signage showing the
       designated stalls for the project.
  6.   All items of the staff report.

PLANNING COMMISSION OPTIONS:
Option 1: Approval
Move to approve of the application by C.W. Urban, to amend the South Salt Lake Zoning Map for the subject
properties located at 547-617 East 3900 South to include the Townhome Overlay (TO), with the conditions
enumerated in the staff report and stated on the record.

Option 2: Denial
Move to deny the application by C.W. Urban, to amend the South Salt Lake Zoning Map for the subject properties
located at 547-617 East 3900 South to include the Townhome Overlay (TO), with the conditions enumerated in
the staff report and stated on the record.

Option 3: Continuance
Move to table the decision on the application by C.W. Urban, to amend the South Salt Lake Zoning Map for the
subject properties located at 547-617 East 3900 South to include the Townhome Overlay (TO) to a date certain
to allow the Applicant and Staff time to respond to specific inquires or concerns raised by the City Council, or to
allow the City Council more time to consider the proposal.

Attachments:
   1. Proposed Preliminary Plat
   2. Civils Engineering Drawings
   3. Proposed Elevations




                                                        14
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SURVEYOR'S CERTIFICATE:

                                                                     THE MONROE TOWNHOMES




                                                                                                                                                                       ENGINEERING
                                                                       LOCATED IN THE SOUTHEAST QUARTER OF SECTION 31,
                                                                                TOWNSHIP 1 SOUTH, RANGE 1 EAST,
                                                                                 SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN,
                                                                         SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I EW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  R   R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Willis D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Long


                                                                                                                                                        JT Engineering, PC                                                                                    F O 10708886



                                                                                                                                                        7886 South 2325 East
                                                                                                                                                         South Weber, Utah
                                                                                                                                                        Mobile 801.866.7702

                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BOUNDARY DESCRIPTION:
                                                                                                                                      OWNERS DEDICATION:


                                                                                                                                                     THE MONROE TOWNHOMES


                                                                                    VICINITY MAP
                              ADDRESS TABLE



                                                                                                                                      NOTARY ACKNOWLEDGEMENT:
                                                                                       PROJECT
                                                                                       LOCATION




                                                                                                                                      LIEN HOLDER CONSENT:




                                                                                                                                      NOTARY ACKNOWLEDGEMENT:
ROCKY MOUNTAIN POWER NOTES:




                                                                               LUMEN                         RECORD OF SURVEY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                        THE MONROE TOWNHOMES
              DOMINION ENERGY UTAH            ROCKY MOUNTAIN POWER      PLANNING COMMISSION                    SALT LAKE COUNTY             SOUTH SALT LAKE                                SOUTH SALT LAKE
                                                                                                                 HEALTH DEPT                 FIRE MARSHAL                                   CITY ENGINEER

                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LOCATED IN THE SOUTHEAST QUARTER OF SECTION 31,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TOWNSHIP 1 SOUTH, RANGE 1 EAST,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH

                                              JORDAN VALLEY WATER          MOUNT OLYMPUS                  SOUTH SALT LAKE COMMUNITY       APPROVAL AS TO FORM                        SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY APPROVAL   RECORDED #                                        .
                                              CONSERVANCY DISTRICT      IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT                    DEVELOPMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  of



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LEGEND & ABBREVIATIONS:
         CURVE DATA                             LINE TABLE
                                                                                                                                    THE MONROE TOWNHOMES
                                                                                                                                                    LOCATED IN THE SOUTHEAST QUARTER OF SECTION 31,
                                                                                                                                                             TOWNSHIP 1 SOUTH, RANGE 1 EAST,
                                                                                                                                                              SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN,
                                                                                                                                                      SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CENTER SQUARE SUBDIVISION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LOT 1


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    A


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             RITA PLACE

                                                                                                                                                              CENTER SQUARE SUBDIVISION
                                                                                                                                                                       LOT 2



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CENTER SQUARE SUBDIVISION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LOT 56      LOT 55   LOT 54      LOT 53        LOT 52        LOT 51          LOT 50                                               LOT 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       915 SF      880 SF   880 SF       902 SF        902 SF         924 SF        915 SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PARCEL E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1484 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PARCEL D                                                                      0.034 AC.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  8725 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.200 AC.

NOTES:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     HEPBURN WAY
                                                                                GRANITE SCHOOL DISTRICT




                                                                                                                                                HEPBURN WAY
                                                                                                                                                                      LOT 49     LOT 48     LOT 47      LOT 46    LOT 45     LOT 44
                                                                                                                                                                       915 SF    858 SF      858 SF      880 SF    880 SF    915 SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                             SAVVY COVE


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PARCEL C
                                                                                                                                                                     LOT 38      LOT 39     LOT 40                                                                                           38575 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                        LOT 41    LOT 42     LOT 43
                                                                                                                                                                     1223 SF     858 SF      858 SF      880 SF   880 SF      915 SF                                                         0.886 AC.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                A


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CENTER SQUARE SUBDIVISION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LOT 1
                      GRANITE SCHOOL DISTRICT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IRENE WAY
                                                                          LOT 15    LOT 14   LOT 13    LOT 12   LOT 11    LOT 10    LOT 9                                                   LOT 26      LOT 25    LOT 24    LOT 23      LOT 22                                    LOT 33    LOT 34        LOT 35       LOT 36    LOT 37
   ·                                                                       892 SF   880 SF    880 SF   880 SF    880 SF    880 SF   964 SF   PARCEL A                            LOT 27      880 SF     902 SF    902 SF    880 SF       915 SF                                   915 SF     880 SF        902 SF       880 SF   992 SF
   ·                                                                                                                                                                             984 SF
                                                                                                                                               2944 SF
   ·                                                                                                                                          0.068 AC.
   ·
   ·
   ·
                                                                                      DOLORES COVE                                                                                                    BETSEY COVE                                                                   ELEANOR COVE                                                            MEDICAL LEASING LTD.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            A
                                                         PARCEL B




                                                                          LOT 1              LOT 3                        LOT 6     LOT 7    LOT 8                               LOT 16     LOT 17                          LOT 20       LOT 21                                LOT 32        LOT 31                    LOT 29    LOT 28
                                                              0.072 AC.




                                                                                                       LOT 4    LOT 5                                                                                   LOT 18    LOT 19                                                                                  LOT 30
                                                               3133 SF




                                                                          1004 SF   LOT 2    946 SF    968 SF   968 SF    946 SF    946 SF   1004 SF                             1004 SF    946 SF      968 SF    968 SF    946 SF       1004 SF                                  1004 SF    946 SF        968 SF       946 SF   1004 SF
                                                                                    946 SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ENGINEERING
                                                                                                                                                                                3900 SOUTH

                                                                                                                                                                                           BASIS OF BEARINGS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   JT Engineering, PC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   7886 South 2325 East
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    South Weber, Utah
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Mobile 801.866.7702


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           RECORDER #                                          .

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            of



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         INDEX OF DRAWINGS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ENGINEERING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        #       SHEET    SHEET TITLE

                                                                                                                                                                                THE MONROE                                                                                                                                                                                              1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CV1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GN1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1 OF 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         COVERSHEET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GENERAL NOTES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ALTA/NSPS LAND TITLE SURVEY
                                                                                                                                                                          LOCATED IN THE SOUTHEAST QUARTER OF SECTION 31                                                                                                                                                                4       2 OF 3   ALTA/NSPS LAND TITLE SURVEY
                                                                                                                                                                                  TOWNSHIP 1 SOUTH, RANGE 1 EAST                                                                                                                                                                        5       3 OF 3   ALTA/NSPS LAND TITLE SURVEY
                                                                                                                                                                                     SALT LAKE BASE & MERIDIAN                                                                                                                                                                          6       1 OF 2   PRELIMINARY PLAT
                                                                                                                                                                                        600 EAST 3900 SOUTH                                                                                                                                                                             7       2 OF 2   PRELIMINARY PLAT
                                                                                                                                                                           SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH                                                                                                                                                                                                                              JT Engineering, PC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        8       2 OF 2   PRELIMINARY PLAT WITH SITE OVERLAY          7886 South 2325 East




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CENTER SQUARE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        9       DP1      DEMOLITION PLAN                           South Weber, Utah 84405
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ph 801.866.7702
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        10      SP1      SITE PLAN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SUBDIVISION
                                                                                                                 CENTER SQUARE SUBDIVISION                                                                                  CENTER SQUARE SUBDIVISION                                                                                                                                   11      UT1      UTILITY PLAN                         PRELIMINARY
                                                                                                                                                       LOT 2                                                                                                  LOT 1                                                                                                                     12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GP-KEY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GP1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GRADING PLAN KEY SHEET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GRADING PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              FOR REVIEW                             S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                OF ES I ONAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LOT 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        14      GP2      GRADING PLAN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    L I CENS ED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             No. 4940495-2202




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            G I NEER
   PROJECT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LOTS 1 TO 15                                                           JASON H.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        15      GP3      GRADING PLAN                                                         THOMPSON
   LOCATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LOTS 16 TO 27                                                       ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  AT E       AH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OF UT
                                                                                                                                                                                                               >        >        >           >           >            >            >            >            >

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        16      GP4      GRADING PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 RITA PLACE                                                                                                                                              LOTS 28 TO 37
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        17      GP5      GRADING PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LOTS 38 TO 49
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   56       55           54              53           52               51           50                                                                                  18      GP6      GRADING PLAN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          RITA PLACE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        19      GP7      GRADING PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                         PARCEL                                                                                                                                                                                                          LOTS 50 TO 56
                                                                                                                                                                                           D                                                                                                                                                                                            20      CS1      CROSS SECTIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PARCEL                                       21      CS2      CROSS SECTION I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             E                                          22      PP-KEY   PLAN AND PROFILE KEY SHEET
VICINITY MAP                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            23      PP1      HEPBURN WAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         STA 10+00 TO 14+00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ADDRESS CITY COMMENTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                  >            >        >                >           >            >            >            >            >            >                >
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        24      PP2      HEPBURN WAY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               REVISIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                           HEPBURN WAY                                                                                                                                                                                   STA 14+00 TO 16+90
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        25      PP-3     IRENE WAY EDGE OF ASPHALT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         STA 9+80 TO 13+00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     >           >            >            >            >            >            >
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        26      PP4      DOLORES AND BETSEY COVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         STA 9+80 TO 13+50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        27      PP5      BETSEY AND ELEANOR COVE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  01/10/23 JHT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                BY
                                                                                                                                      49       48                47         46           45               44                                                                                                                                                                                             STA 13+00 TO 16+00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        28      PP6      SAVVY COVE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         STA 9+80 TO 12+50
                                    GRANITE SCHOOL DISTRICT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             29      PP7      RITA PLACE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         STA 9+80 TO 12+10
                                                                                                                                                       SAVVY COVE
                                                                                                                     >




                                                                                                                                       >       >             >
                                                                                                                                                                                     >        >                                                                                                                                                                                         30      PP8      36" STORM DRAIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         STA 9+80 TO 13+25
                                                                                                                     >




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PARCEL                                                                                                        31      PP9      36" STORM DRAIN
                                                                                                                     >




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            C                                                                                                                            STA 12+50 TO 16+10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        32      PP10     PARCEL C DETENTION BASIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        33      EC1      EROSION CONTROL PLAN
                                                                                                                                      38       39            40                 41       42               43




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             COVERSHEET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        34      EC2      EROSION CONTROL PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        35      DT1      PROJECT DETAILS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        36      DT2      JVWCD WATER DETAILS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        37      DT3      MOID SEWER DETAILS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      THE MONROE TOWNHOMES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IRENE WAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        38      DT4      STORMTECH DETAILS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        39      DT5      STORMTECH DETAILS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         600 EAST 3900 SOUTH
                                                                                                                                               27            26             25           24               23        22                                        33           34               35               36              37                                                         40      DT6      STORMTECH DETAILS
                           15       14          13       12          11       10       9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        41      DT7      STORMTECH DETAILS
                                                                                               PARCEL
                                                                                                 A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CENTER SQUARE
                                                                                                            >




                                        DOLORES COVE                                                                                                             BETSEY COVE                                                                                               ELEANOR COVE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            >
                                                                                                                                  >




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SUBDIVISION
                                                                                                            >




                                                                                                                                                                                          >
      >   >
                                                                                                                                                                                                      >        >
                 >     >        >   >       >    >   >       >   >        >   >    >   >   >                                                       >     >            >     >



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DEVELOPER                   CIVIL ENGINEER
                                                                                                                HEPBURN WAY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            >
                                                                                                                                  >
                                                                                                            >




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  JT ENGINEERING, PC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            >
                                                                                                                                  >




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CW URBAN, LLC               7886 SOUTH 2325 EAST
                                                                                                            >




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LOT 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CONTACT: WALKER WOOD        SOUTH WEBER, UTAH 84405
              PARCEL




                           1            2       3        4           5         6       7        8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IAN CAHOON
                                                                                                                                               16            17             18           19               20        21                                        32           31               30               29             28                                                                   (866) 744-2489
                B




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CONTACT: JASON THOMPSON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (801) 866-7702
                                                                                                                                  >
                                                                                                                                  >




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PROJECT DATA
                                                                                                    >   >        >            >   >        >


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SHEET SIZE: ARCH D


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ACREAGE SUMMARY                                                          H. SCALE: 1" = 30'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LOTS:                      1.193                                               V. SCALE: N/A

                                                                                                            3900 SOUTH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PARCELS:                   1.260                         DATE: SEPT. 30, 2022
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PRIVATE ROAD               1.357                              ã COPYRIGHT 2022
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PUBLIC R.O.W.              0.172
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TOTAL AREA:                3.982                                   SHEET NO.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TOTAL UNITS:                   56                                              CV1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1 of 41
                                                                                                                                                                         ENGINEERING
A. GENERAL NOTES
                                                                          ·
                                                                                                            LEGEND
                                                                          ·
                                                                          ·
                                                                          ·




                                                                                                    4590
                                                                                                                           JT Engineering, PC
                                                                                                    4586
                                                                                                                           7886 South 2325 East
                                                                                                                         South Weber, Utah 84405
                                                                                                                             ph 801.866.7702



                                                                                                    SW
                                                                                                                     FOR REVIEW
                                                                                                                                                           S
                                                                                                                                                      OF ES I ONAL
                                                                                                                                                    PR
                                                                                                    SS

                                           E. FIRE DEPARTMENT NOTES




                                                                                                                                                                     EN
                                                                                                                          L I CENS ED
                                                                                                     W
                                                                          G. SANITARY SEWER NOTES                                                  No. 4940495-2202




                                                                                                                                                                       G I NEER
                                                                                                    SD                                                JASON H.
                                                                                                                                                    THOMPSON
                                                                                                    8''PI
                                                                                                                                                   ST
                                                                                                                                                        AT E       AH
                                                                                                                                                             OF UT

                                                                                                    8''W
                   C. STREET LIGHT NOTES

        ’




                                                                                                                     REVISIONS
                                                                                                                                      DESCRIPTION
                                             ’                        ’



                                                                                                     ABBREVIATIONS




                                                                                                                                      BY
                                           F. WATER NOTES




                                                                                                                                   #  DATE




                                                                                                                                                   GENERAL NOTES
                                                                                                                                                                        SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH
                                                                                                                            THE MONROE TOWNHOMES




                                                                                                                                                                                     600 EAST 3900 SOUTH
                   D. GRADING NOTES




                                                                                                                                 SHEET SIZE: ARCH D

                                                                                                                                                   H. SCALE: N/A

                                                                                                                                                   V. SCALE: N/A

                                                                                                                             DATE: SEPT. 30, 2022

                                                                                                                                  ã COPYRIGHT 2022


B. TRAFFIC NOTES
                                                                                                                                       SHEET NO.

                                                                                                                                             GN1
                                                                                                                                                    2 of 41
                   LEGEND, SYMBOLS, AND ABBREVIATIONS                                                                    VICINITY MAP                  SURVEYORS NARRATIVE:                  SURVEYOR'S CERTIFICATE:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ENGINEERING
                                                                                                                                                       BASIS OF BEARINGS:                                               Willis D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Long
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       10708886
                                                                                                                           PROJECT                                                                                                        JT Engineering, PC
                                                                                                                           LOCATION                                                                                                       7886 South 2325 East
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        South Weber, Utah 84405
                                                                                                                                                                                             PROPERTY DESCRIPTION:                           ph 801.866.7702
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           jason@jtengpc.com




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SEE GENERAL NOTE 7 ON SHEET 2
                                                                                                                                 BASIS OF BEARINGS / SECTION DETAIL & KEY MAP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   REVISIONS



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ADD EXISTING GAS LINES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   RELEASED TO CLIENT
                                                                                                3300 SOUTH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3/17/21

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         7/22/21

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4/20/22
                             3790 SOUTH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               # DATE


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   MEDICAL LEASING LTD. PROPERTY
           LINE TABLE                                                            CENTER SQUARE                         CENTER SQUARE SUBDIVISION
                                                                                  SUBDIVISION                                         LOT 1
                                                                                              LOT 2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ALTA/NSPS LAND TITLE SURVEY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LOCATED IN THE SOUTHEAST QUARTER OF SECTION 31,


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH
                                                                                                                                                               CENTER SQUARE
                                                                                                                                                                SUBDIVISION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TOWNSHIP 1 SOUTH, RANGE 1 EAST,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN,
                                                                                                                                                                      LOT 2
500 EAST




                                                                                                                                                                                  700 EAST
                                GRANITE SCHOOL DISTRICT
                                                                                        PARCEL 8




                                                                                                                           PARCEL 9


                                                                                                                                                                CENTER SQUARE
                                                                                                                                                                 SUBDIVISION
                                                                                                                                                                        LOT 1


                                                                                                                                                           MEDICAL LEASING LTD.
                                                                                       L4
                                              L1            L2           L3         E               L   5         L6
                                           C E           C E          C E
                                                                                 ARC             CE            C E
                                       PA
                                          R
                                                   PA
                                                     R
                                                                 PA
                                                                   R           P
                                                                                             PA
                                                                                                R
                                                                                                            PAR


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SHEET SIZE: ARCH D

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SCALE: 1" = 50'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DRAWN BY: JHT

                                                                              3900 SOUTH                                                                                                                                                              CHECKED BY: WDL

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PROJECT No: 210205
                                                                                            BASIS OF BEARINGS


                             SHEET 3                                                                                                                                                                                                               SHEET NO.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1 3                              OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Long
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Willis D

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   10708886
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GENERAL NOTES:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PROPERTY DESCRIPTION:




                                                                                                                                                                                                  REVISIONS
                                                                                                                MEDICAL LEASING LTD. PROPERTY                          #   DATE      DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                       0   3/17/21   RELEASED TO CLIENT

                                                                                                                                                                       1   7/22/21   ADD EXISTING GAS LINES
 OF




                                                                                                                    ALTA/NSPS LAND TITLE SURVEY
                                                                                                                     LOCATED IN THE SOUTHEAST QUARTER OF SECTION 31,   2   4/20/22   SEE GENERAL NOTE 7 ON SHEET 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ph 801.866.7702




                                                                                                                              TOWNSHIP 1 SOUTH, RANGE 1 EAST,
                                                                         SCALE: 1" = 20'




2 3
                                                         DRAWN BY: JHT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        jason@jtengpc.com
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       JT Engineering, PC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       7886 South 2325 East




                                       CHECKED BY: WDL




                                                                                                                               SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN,
                  PROJECT No: 210205
                                                                                           SHEET SIZE: ARCH D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     South Weber, Utah 84405




                                                                                                                       SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH                                                                            ENGINEERING
      SHEET NO.
                                                                                                                                                 KEY NOTES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ENGINEERING
BOARD OF EDUCATIONBOARD OF EDUCATION BOARD OF EDUCATION    CENTER SQUARE SUBDIVISION          CENTER SQUARE SUBDIVISION
  OF THE GRANITE    OF THE GRANITE     OF THE GRANITE                      LOT 2                           LOT 1
     SCHOOL            SCHOOL             SCHOOL

                                                                                                                                                                     JT Engineering, PC
                                                                                                                                                                     7886 South 2325 East
                                                                                                                                                                   South Weber, Utah 84405
                                                                                                                          CENTER SQUARE                                 ph 801.866.7702
                                                                                                                                                                      jason@jtengpc.com
                                                                                                                           SUBDIVISION
                                                                                                                                LOT 2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SEE GENERAL NOTE 7 ON SHEET 2
                                                                                                                                                              REVISIONS



                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ADD EXISTING GAS LINES
                                                                                                                                                                                              RELEASED TO CLIENT
                                                                                                                                                                            DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                          3/17/21

                                                                                                                                                                                                                    7/22/21

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4/20/22
                                                                                                                                                                            DATE
                                                                                                                                                   Willis D
                                                                PARCEL 8                                                                            Long
                                                                                                                                                  10708886
            GRANITE SCHOOL DISTRICT




                                                                                                                                                                          #

                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2
                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                PARCEL 9




                                                                                                                                                              MEDICAL LEASING LTD. PROPERTY
                                                                                                                                                                                                         ALTA/NSPS LAND TITLE SURVEY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LOCATED IN THE SOUTHEAST QUARTER OF SECTION 31,


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TOWNSHIP 1 SOUTH, RANGE 1 EAST,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN,
PARCEL 1        PARCEL 2              PARCEL 3       PARCEL 4   PARCEL 5           PARCEL 6

                                                                                                                          CENTER SQUARE
                                                                                                                           SUBDIVISION
                                                                                                                                 LOT 1


                                                                                                                          MEDICAL LEASING LTD.




                                                                           3900 SOUTH



                                                                                                                                                                             SHEET SIZE: ARCH D

                                                                                                                                                                                          SCALE: 1" = 30'

                                                                                                                                                                                     DRAWN BY: JHT

                                                                                                                                                                                 CHECKED BY: WDL

                                                                                                                                                                              PROJECT No: 210205



                                                                                                                                                                              SHEET NO.

                                                                                                                                                                                 3 3                               OF
                     1                        2   3            4                5




D                                                                                   D
                                                                                          UNLESS A PROFESSIONAL SEAL WITH SIGNATURE AND DATE IS
                                                                                         AFFIXED, THIS DOCUMENT IS PRELIMINARY AND IS NOT INTENDED
                                                                                        FOR CONSTRUCTION, RECORDING PURPOSES, OR IMPLEMENTATION




                    1 Building A Front/Left




C                                                                                   C


                                                                                          THE DESIGNS SHOWN AND DESCRIBED HEREIN INCLUDING ALL
                                                                                         TECHNICAL DRAWINGS, GRAPHIC REPRESENTATIONS & MODELS
                                                                                        THEREOF, ARE PROPRIETARY & CAN NOT BE COPIED, DUPLICATED,
                                                                                        OR COMMERCIALLY EXPLOITED IN WHOLE OR IN PART WITHOUT THE
                                                                                           SOLE AND EXPRESS WRITTEN PERMISSION FROM CW URBAN




                                                       3 Building A Rear/Left




                                                                                                                                  3900 S 700 E, SOUTH SALT LAKE
                                                                                                 theMONROE
B                                                                                   B




                                                                                        PROJECT
                                                                                        :
                                                                                        REVISIONS:




                                                                                        TITLE:
        Building A Front/Right
    2
                                                                                          Building A - 3D
A                                                                                   A
                                                                                               Views

                                                                                        SHEET:

                                                      4 Building A Rear/Right
                                                                                          A000.1
                                                                                        ISSUE DATE :


                     1                        2   3            4                5
                1                2   3                                             4            5




D                                                                                                   D
                                                                                                          UNLESS A PROFESSIONAL SEAL WITH SIGNATURE AND DATE IS
                                                                                                         AFFIXED, THIS DOCUMENT IS PRELIMINARY AND IS NOT INTENDED
                                                                                                        FOR CONSTRUCTION, RECORDING PURPOSES, OR IMPLEMENTATION




    1 Building B Front/Left




C                                                                                                   C


                                                                                                          THE DESIGNS SHOWN AND DESCRIBED HEREIN INCLUDING ALL
                                                                                                         TECHNICAL DRAWINGS, GRAPHIC REPRESENTATIONS & MODELS
                                                                                                        THEREOF, ARE PROPRIETARY & CAN NOT BE COPIED, DUPLICATED,
                                                                                                        OR COMMERCIALLY EXPLOITED IN WHOLE OR IN PART WITHOUT THE
                                                                                                           SOLE AND EXPRESS WRITTEN PERMISSION FROM CW URBAN




                                                                     2 Building B Front/Right




                                                                                                                                                  3900 S 700 E, SOUTH SALT LAKE
                                                                                                                 theMONROE
B                                                                                                   B




                                                                                                        PROJECT
                                                                                                        :
                                                                                                        REVISIONS:




                                                                                                        TITLE:
        3 Building B Rear/Left                                                                            Building B - 3D
A                                                                                                   A
                                                                                                               Views

                                                                                                        SHEET:



                                             Building B Rear/Right
                                                                                                          B000.1
                                                                                                        ISSUE DATE :
                                         4
                1                2   3                                             4            5
                        1                                     2   3   4                              5




D                                                                                                        D
                                                                                                               UNLESS A PROFESSIONAL SEAL WITH SIGNATURE AND DATE IS
                                                                                                              AFFIXED, THIS DOCUMENT IS PRELIMINARY AND IS NOT INTENDED
                                                                                                             FOR CONSTRUCTION, RECORDING PURPOSES, OR IMPLEMENTATION




          1 Building C Front/Left




C                                                                                                        C


                                                                                                               THE DESIGNS SHOWN AND DESCRIBED HEREIN INCLUDING ALL
                                                                                                              TECHNICAL DRAWINGS, GRAPHIC REPRESENTATIONS & MODELS
                                                                                                             THEREOF, ARE PROPRIETARY & CAN NOT BE COPIED, DUPLICATED,
                                                                                                             OR COMMERCIALLY EXPLOITED IN WHOLE OR IN PART WITHOUT THE
                                                                                                                SOLE AND EXPRESS WRITTEN PERMISSION FROM CW URBAN




                                                                          2 Building C Front/Right




                                                                                                                                                       3900 S 700 E, SOUTH SALT LAKE
                                                                                                                      theMONROE
B                                                                                                        B




                                                                                                             PROJECT
                                                                                                             :
                                                                                                             REVISIONS:



    3 Building C Rear/Left

                                                                                                             TITLE:
                                                                                                               Building C - 3D
A                                                                                                        A
                                                                                                                    Views

                                                                                                             SHEET:



                                    4 Building C Rear/Right
                                                                                                              C000.1
                                                                                                             ISSUE DATE :


                        1                                     2   3   4                              5
    1                              2   3   4   5




D                                                  D
                                                         UNLESS A PROFESSIONAL SEAL WITH SIGNATURE AND DATE IS
                                                        AFFIXED, THIS DOCUMENT IS PRELIMINARY AND IS NOT INTENDED
                                                       FOR CONSTRUCTION, RECORDING PURPOSES, OR IMPLEMENTATION




C                                                  C


                                                         THE DESIGNS SHOWN AND DESCRIBED HEREIN INCLUDING ALL
                                                        TECHNICAL DRAWINGS, GRAPHIC REPRESENTATIONS & MODELS
                                                       THEREOF, ARE PROPRIETARY & CAN NOT BE COPIED, DUPLICATED,
                                                       OR COMMERCIALLY EXPLOITED IN WHOLE OR IN PART WITHOUT THE
                                                          SOLE AND EXPRESS WRITTEN PERMISSION FROM CW URBAN




        1 Building D Front/Left




                                                                                                 3900 S 700 E, SOUTH SALT LAKE
                                                                theMONROE
B                                                  B




                                                       PROJECT
                                                       :
                                                       REVISIONS:




                                                       TITLE:
                                                       Building D - Front
A       2 Building D Front/Right                   A
                                                           3D Views

                                                       SHEET:

                                                        D000.1
                                                       ISSUE DATE :


    1                              2   3   4   5
    1                             2   3   4   5




D                                                 D
                                                        UNLESS A PROFESSIONAL SEAL WITH SIGNATURE AND DATE IS
                                                       AFFIXED, THIS DOCUMENT IS PRELIMINARY AND IS NOT INTENDED
                                                      FOR CONSTRUCTION, RECORDING PURPOSES, OR IMPLEMENTATION




C                                                 C


                                                        THE DESIGNS SHOWN AND DESCRIBED HEREIN INCLUDING ALL
                                                       TECHNICAL DRAWINGS, GRAPHIC REPRESENTATIONS & MODELS
                                                      THEREOF, ARE PROPRIETARY & CAN NOT BE COPIED, DUPLICATED,
                                                      OR COMMERCIALLY EXPLOITED IN WHOLE OR IN PART WITHOUT THE
                                                         SOLE AND EXPRESS WRITTEN PERMISSION FROM CW URBAN




        1 Building D Rear/Left




                                                                                                3900 S 700 E, SOUTH SALT LAKE
                                                               theMONROE
B                                                 B




                                                      PROJECT
                                                      :
                                                      REVISIONS:




                                                      TITLE:
                                                      3D Views - Rear
        2 Building D Rear/Right                         Building D
A                                                 A



                                                      SHEET:

                                                       D000.2
                                                      ISSUE DATE :


    1                             2   3   4   5
    1                              2   3   4   5




D                                                  D
                                                         UNLESS A PROFESSIONAL SEAL WITH SIGNATURE AND DATE IS
                                                        AFFIXED, THIS DOCUMENT IS PRELIMINARY AND IS NOT INTENDED
                                                       FOR CONSTRUCTION, RECORDING PURPOSES, OR IMPLEMENTATION




C                                                  C


                                                         THE DESIGNS SHOWN AND DESCRIBED HEREIN INCLUDING ALL
                                                        TECHNICAL DRAWINGS, GRAPHIC REPRESENTATIONS & MODELS
                                                       THEREOF, ARE PROPRIETARY & CAN NOT BE COPIED, DUPLICATED,
                                                       OR COMMERCIALLY EXPLOITED IN WHOLE OR IN PART WITHOUT THE
                                                          SOLE AND EXPRESS WRITTEN PERMISSION FROM CW URBAN




        1 Building E Front/Left




                                                                                                 3900 S 700 E, SOUTH SALT LAKE
                                                                theMONROE
B                                                  B




                                                       PROJECT
                                                       :
                                                       REVISIONS:




                                                       TITLE:
                                                       Building E - Front
A                                                  A
                                                           3D Views

        2 Building E Front/Right                       SHEET:

                                                         E000.1
                                                       ISSUE DATE :


    1                              2   3   4   5
    1                             2   3   4   5




D                                                 D
                                                        UNLESS A PROFESSIONAL SEAL WITH SIGNATURE AND DATE IS
                                                       AFFIXED, THIS DOCUMENT IS PRELIMINARY AND IS NOT INTENDED
                                                      FOR CONSTRUCTION, RECORDING PURPOSES, OR IMPLEMENTATION




C                                                 C


                                                        THE DESIGNS SHOWN AND DESCRIBED HEREIN INCLUDING ALL
                                                       TECHNICAL DRAWINGS, GRAPHIC REPRESENTATIONS & MODELS
                                                      THEREOF, ARE PROPRIETARY & CAN NOT BE COPIED, DUPLICATED,
                                                      OR COMMERCIALLY EXPLOITED IN WHOLE OR IN PART WITHOUT THE
                                                         SOLE AND EXPRESS WRITTEN PERMISSION FROM CW URBAN




        1 Building E Rear/Left




                                                                                                3900 S 700 E, SOUTH SALT LAKE
                                                               theMONROE
B                                                 B




                                                      PROJECT
                                                      :
                                                      REVISIONS:




                                                      TITLE:
                                                    Building E - Rear 3D
A                                                 A
                                                           Views

                                                      SHEET:

        2 Building E Rear/Right                         E000.2
                                                      ISSUE DATE :


    1                             2   3   4   5
    1                               2   3   4   5




D                                                   D
                                                          UNLESS A PROFESSIONAL SEAL WITH SIGNATURE AND DATE IS
                                                         AFFIXED, THIS DOCUMENT IS PRELIMINARY AND IS NOT INTENDED
                                                        FOR CONSTRUCTION, RECORDING PURPOSES, OR IMPLEMENTATION




C                                                   C


                                                          THE DESIGNS SHOWN AND DESCRIBED HEREIN INCLUDING ALL
                                                         TECHNICAL DRAWINGS, GRAPHIC REPRESENTATIONS & MODELS
                                                        THEREOF, ARE PROPRIETARY & CAN NOT BE COPIED, DUPLICATED,
                                                        OR COMMERCIALLY EXPLOITED IN WHOLE OR IN PART WITHOUT THE
                                                           SOLE AND EXPRESS WRITTEN PERMISSION FROM CW URBAN




        1 Building F Front/Left




                                                                                                  3900 S 700 E, SOUTH SALT LAKE
                                                                 theMONROE
B                                                   B




                                                        PROJECT
                                                        :
                                                        REVISIONS:




                                                        TITLE:
                                                      Building F - Front 3D
A                                                   A
                                                              Views

                                                        SHEET:
         2 Building F Front/Right
                                                           F000.1
                                                        ISSUE DATE :


    1                               2   3   4   5
    1                               2   3   4   5




D                                                   D
                                                          UNLESS A PROFESSIONAL SEAL WITH SIGNATURE AND DATE IS
                                                         AFFIXED, THIS DOCUMENT IS PRELIMINARY AND IS NOT INTENDED
                                                        FOR CONSTRUCTION, RECORDING PURPOSES, OR IMPLEMENTATION




C                                                   C


                                                          THE DESIGNS SHOWN AND DESCRIBED HEREIN INCLUDING ALL
                                                         TECHNICAL DRAWINGS, GRAPHIC REPRESENTATIONS & MODELS
                                                        THEREOF, ARE PROPRIETARY & CAN NOT BE COPIED, DUPLICATED,
                                                        OR COMMERCIALLY EXPLOITED IN WHOLE OR IN PART WITHOUT THE
                                                           SOLE AND EXPRESS WRITTEN PERMISSION FROM CW URBAN




        1 Building F Rear/Left




                                                                                                  3900 S 700 E, SOUTH SALT LAKE
                                                                 theMONROE
B                                                   B




                                                        PROJECT
                                                        :
                                                        REVISIONS:




                                                        TITLE:
                                                      Building F - Rear 3D
A                                                   A
                                                             Views

            Building F Rear/Right                       SHEET:
        2

                                                           F000.2
                                                        ISSUE DATE :


    1                               2   3   4   5
    1                              2   3   4   5




D                                                  D
                                                         UNLESS A PROFESSIONAL SEAL WITH SIGNATURE AND DATE IS
                                                        AFFIXED, THIS DOCUMENT IS PRELIMINARY AND IS NOT INTENDED
                                                       FOR CONSTRUCTION, RECORDING PURPOSES, OR IMPLEMENTATION




C                                                  C


                                                         THE DESIGNS SHOWN AND DESCRIBED HEREIN INCLUDING ALL
                                                        TECHNICAL DRAWINGS, GRAPHIC REPRESENTATIONS & MODELS
                                                       THEREOF, ARE PROPRIETARY & CAN NOT BE COPIED, DUPLICATED,
                                                       OR COMMERCIALLY EXPLOITED IN WHOLE OR IN PART WITHOUT THE
                                                          SOLE AND EXPRESS WRITTEN PERMISSION FROM CW URBAN




        1 Building G Front/Left




                                                                                                 3900 S 700 E, SOUTH SALT LAKE
                                                                theMONROE
B                                                  B




                                                       PROJECT
                                                       :
                                                       REVISIONS:




                                                       TITLE:
                                                       Building G - Front
A                                                  A
                                                           3D Views

                                                       SHEET:
        2 Building G Front/Right
                                                       G000.1
                                                       ISSUE DATE :


    1                              2   3   4   5
    1                               2   3   4   5




D                                                   D
                                                          UNLESS A PROFESSIONAL SEAL WITH SIGNATURE AND DATE IS
                                                         AFFIXED, THIS DOCUMENT IS PRELIMINARY AND IS NOT INTENDED
                                                        FOR CONSTRUCTION, RECORDING PURPOSES, OR IMPLEMENTATION




C                                                   C


                                                          THE DESIGNS SHOWN AND DESCRIBED HEREIN INCLUDING ALL
                                                         TECHNICAL DRAWINGS, GRAPHIC REPRESENTATIONS & MODELS
                                                        THEREOF, ARE PROPRIETARY & CAN NOT BE COPIED, DUPLICATED,
                                                        OR COMMERCIALLY EXPLOITED IN WHOLE OR IN PART WITHOUT THE
                                                           SOLE AND EXPRESS WRITTEN PERMISSION FROM CW URBAN




        1 Building G Rear/Left




                                                                                                  3900 S 700 E, SOUTH SALT LAKE
                                                                 theMONROE
B                                                   B




                                                        PROJECT
                                                        :
                                                        REVISIONS:




                                                        TITLE:
                                                      Building G - Rear 3D
A                                                   A
                                                              Views

            Building G Rear/Right                       SHEET:
        2

                                                        G000.2
                                                        ISSUE DATE :


    1                               2   3   4   5
    1                            2   3   4   5




D                                                D
                                                       UNLESS A PROFESSIONAL SEAL WITH SIGNATURE AND DATE IS
                                                      AFFIXED, THIS DOCUMENT IS PRELIMINARY AND IS NOT INTENDED
                                                     FOR CONSTRUCTION, RECORDING PURPOSES, OR IMPLEMENTATION




C                                                C


                                                       THE DESIGNS SHOWN AND DESCRIBED HEREIN INCLUDING ALL
                                                      TECHNICAL DRAWINGS, GRAPHIC REPRESENTATIONS & MODELS
                                                     THEREOF, ARE PROPRIETARY & CAN NOT BE COPIED, DUPLICATED,
                                                     OR COMMERCIALLY EXPLOITED IN WHOLE OR IN PART WITHOUT THE
                                                        SOLE AND EXPRESS WRITTEN PERMISSION FROM CW URBAN




    1 Building H Front/Left




                                                                                               3900 S 700 E, SOUTH SALT LAKE
                                                              theMONROE
B                                                B




                                                     PROJECT
                                                     :
                                                     REVISIONS:




                                                     TITLE:
                                                     Building H - Front
A                                                A
                                                         3D Views

                                                     SHEET:


    2   Building H Front/Right
                                                      H000.1
                                                     ISSUE DATE :


    1                            2   3   4   5
    1                             2   3   4   5




D                                                 D
                                                        UNLESS A PROFESSIONAL SEAL WITH SIGNATURE AND DATE IS
                                                       AFFIXED, THIS DOCUMENT IS PRELIMINARY AND IS NOT INTENDED
                                                      FOR CONSTRUCTION, RECORDING PURPOSES, OR IMPLEMENTATION




C                                                 C


                                                        THE DESIGNS SHOWN AND DESCRIBED HEREIN INCLUDING ALL
                                                       TECHNICAL DRAWINGS, GRAPHIC REPRESENTATIONS & MODELS
                                                      THEREOF, ARE PROPRIETARY & CAN NOT BE COPIED, DUPLICATED,
                                                      OR COMMERCIALLY EXPLOITED IN WHOLE OR IN PART WITHOUT THE
                                                         SOLE AND EXPRESS WRITTEN PERMISSION FROM CW URBAN




        1 Building H Rear/Left




                                                                                                3900 S 700 E, SOUTH SALT LAKE
                                                               theMONROE
B                                                 B




                                                      PROJECT
                                                      :
                                                      REVISIONS:




                                                      TITLE:
                                                    Building H - Rear 3D
A                                                 A
                                                           Views

                                                      SHEET:


        2 Building H Rear/Right                        H000.2
                                                      ISSUE DATE :


    1                             2   3   4   5
          1                    2   3   4   5




D                                              D
                                                     UNLESS A PROFESSIONAL SEAL WITH SIGNATURE AND DATE IS
                                                    AFFIXED, THIS DOCUMENT IS PRELIMINARY AND IS NOT INTENDED
                                                   FOR CONSTRUCTION, RECORDING PURPOSES, OR IMPLEMENTATION




C                                              C


                                                     THE DESIGNS SHOWN AND DESCRIBED HEREIN INCLUDING ALL
                                                    TECHNICAL DRAWINGS, GRAPHIC REPRESENTATIONS & MODELS
                                                   THEREOF, ARE PROPRIETARY & CAN NOT BE COPIED, DUPLICATED,
                                                   OR COMMERCIALLY EXPLOITED IN WHOLE OR IN PART WITHOUT THE
                                                      SOLE AND EXPRESS WRITTEN PERMISSION FROM CW URBAN




    1 Building J Front/Left




                                                                                             3900 S 700 E, SOUTH SALT LAKE
                                                            theMONROE
B                                              B




                                                   PROJECT
                                                   :
                                                   REVISIONS:




                                                   TITLE:
                                                 Building J - Front 3D
A                                              A
                                                        Views

                                                   SHEET:
    2 Building J Front/Right
                                                        J000.1
                                                   ISSUE DATE :


          1                    2   3   4   5
       1                      2   3   4   5




D                                             D
                                                    UNLESS A PROFESSIONAL SEAL WITH SIGNATURE AND DATE IS
                                                   AFFIXED, THIS DOCUMENT IS PRELIMINARY AND IS NOT INTENDED
                                                  FOR CONSTRUCTION, RECORDING PURPOSES, OR IMPLEMENTATION




C                                             C


                                                    THE DESIGNS SHOWN AND DESCRIBED HEREIN INCLUDING ALL
                                                   TECHNICAL DRAWINGS, GRAPHIC REPRESENTATIONS & MODELS
                                                  THEREOF, ARE PROPRIETARY & CAN NOT BE COPIED, DUPLICATED,
                                                  OR COMMERCIALLY EXPLOITED IN WHOLE OR IN PART WITHOUT THE
                                                     SOLE AND EXPRESS WRITTEN PERMISSION FROM CW URBAN




    1 Building J Rear/Left




                                                                                            3900 S 700 E, SOUTH SALT LAKE
                                                           theMONROE
B                                             B




                                                  PROJECT
                                                  :
                                                  REVISIONS:




                                                  TITLE:
                                                Building J - Rear 3D
A                                             A
                                                       Views

                                                  SHEET:
    2 Building J Rear/Right
                                                       J000.2
                                                  ISSUE DATE :


       1                      2   3   4   5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LEGEND & ABBREVIATIONS:
CURVE DATA    LINE TABLE
                                                                                                                         THE MONROE TOWNHOMES**WITH SITE OVERLAY**
                                                                                                                                               LOCATED IN THE SOUTHEAST QUARTER OF SECTION 31,
                                                                                                                                                        TOWNSHIP 1 SOUTH, RANGE 1 EAST,
                                                                                                                                                         SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN,
                                                                                                                                                 SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CENTER SQUARE SUBDIVISION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LOT 1


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     A


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           >            >        >           >               >                >               >               >               >




                                                                                                                                                                     CENTER SQUARE SUBDIVISION                                                                                                                    RITA PLACE
                                                                                                                                                                                      LOT 2


                                                                                     GRANITE SCHOOL DISTRICT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CENTER SQUARE SUBDIVISION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LOT 56       LOT 55   LOT 54            LOT 53                LOT 52            LOT 51             LOT 50                                                                  LOT 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               915 SF       880 SF   880 SF                902 SF            902 SF               924 SF          915 SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PARCEL E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1484 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PARCEL D                                                                                                            0.034 AC.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               8725 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.200 AC.


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          >                >            >                >             >                 >                >               >             >                >             >

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 HEPBURN WAY


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     >             >                 >                >               >             >                >




                                                                                                                                               HEPBURN WAY
                                                                                                                                                                                  LOT 49            LOT 48    LOT 47           LOT 46        LOT 45               LOT 44
                                                                                                                                                                                      915 SF        858 SF        858 SF        880 SF        880 SF               915 SF




                                                                                                                                                                         >
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         >            >
                                                                                                                                                                                        >             >           >

                                                                                                                                                                                                    SAVVY COVE




                                                                                                                                                                         >
                                                                                                                                                                         >
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PARCEL C
                                                                                                                                                                                 LOT 38             LOT 39    LOT 40                                                                                                                               38575 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LOT 41        LOT 42               LOT 43
                                                                                                                                                                                 1223 SF            858 SF        858 SF        880 SF       880 SF                915 SF                                                                          0.886 AC.


             GRANITE SCHOOL DISTRICT


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CENTER SQUARE SUBDIVISION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LOT 1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             IRENE WAY
                                                     LOT 15   LOT 14       LOT 13        LOT 12   LOT 11       LOT 10        LOT 9                                                                            LOT 26           LOT 25        LOT 24           LOT 23            LOT 22                                              LOT 33        LOT 34              LOT 35            LOT 36           LOT 37
                                                     892 SF   880 SF        880 SF       880 SF       880 SF    880 SF       964 SF   PARCEL A                                                      LOT 27        880 SF       902 SF        902 SF               880 SF         915 SF                                             915 SF         880 SF              902 SF               880 SF           992 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                    984 SF
                                                                                                                                            2944 SF
                                                                                                                                           0.068 AC.




                                                                                                                                                                 >
                                                                   DOLORES COVE                                                                                                                                                               BETSEY COVE                                                                        ELEANOR COVE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             >
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MEDICAL LEASING LTD.




                                                                                                                                                                                 >
                                                                                                                                                                 >
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 >
                       >    >
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              >            >
                                           >     >       >     >       >      >      >       >    >        >    >        >      >     >                                                                   >   >            >    >




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             >
                                                                                                                                                                                 >
                                                                                                                                                                 >




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             >
                                                                                                                                                                                 >
                                                                                                                                                                 >
                                PARCEL B




                                                 LOT 1                     LOT 3                               LOT 6         LOT 7        LOT 8                                                     LOT 16    LOT 17                                          LOT 20             LOT 21                                          LOT 32            LOT 31                               LOT 29           LOT 28
                                     0.072 AC.




                                                                                         LOT 4    LOT 5                                                                                                                        LOT 18        LOT 19                                                                                                                   LOT 30
                                      3133 SF




                                                 1004 SF      LOT 2        946 SF        968 SF   968 SF       946 SF        946 SF       1004 SF                                                   1004 SF   946 SF           968 SF        968 SF               946 SF         1004 SF                                            1004 SF        946 SF              968 SF               946 SF           1004 SF
                                                              946 SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ENGINEERING
                                                                                                                                                                                 >
                                                                                                                                                                                 >




                                                                                                                                               >             >       >       >    >            >




                                                                                                                                                                                                   3900 SOUTH



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    JT Engineering, PC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    7886 South 2325 East
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     South Weber, Utah
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Mobile 801.866.7702


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           RECORDER #                                           .

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             of



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2
                                                                                                                                                                                  KEY NOTES




                                                                                                                                              CENTER SQUARE SUBDIVISION - LOT 2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ENGINEERING
BOARD OF EDUCATION                                      CENTER SQUARE SUBDIVISION          CENTER SQUARE SUBDIVISION
  OF THE GRANITE     PARCEL 7         PARCEL 10                         LOT 2                           LOT 1
     SCHOOL

                                                                                                                                                                                                    JT Engineering, PC
                                                                                                                                                                                                    7886 South 2325 East
                                                                                                                                                                                                  South Weber, Utah 84405
                                                                                                                                                                                                      ph 801.866.7702

                                                                                                                                                                                              FOR REVIEW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OF ES I ONAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EN
                                                                                                                                                                                                   L I CENS ED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            No. 4940495-2202




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   G I NEER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               JASON H.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             THOMPSON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AT E            AH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OF U T




                                                             PARCEL 8
            GRANITE SCHOOL DISTRICT




                                                                                                                                                                                              REVISIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                               DESCRIPTION
                                                                                             PARCEL 9




                                                                                                                                                                                                            #  BY
                                                                                                                                                                                                               DATE
                                                                                                                         CENTER SQUARE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DEMOLITION PLAN
                                                                                                                          SUBDIVISION
                                                                                                                                 LOT 1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                     THE MONROE TOWNHOMES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   600 EAST 3900 SOUTH
PARCEL 1       PARCEL 2               PARCEL 3    PARCEL 4   PARCEL 5           PARCEL 6



                                                                                                                       MEDICAL LEASING LTD.




                                                                        3900 SOUTH



                                                                                                                                                                                                          SHEET SIZE: ARCH D

                                                                                                                                                                                                                      H. SCALE: 1" = 30'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                            V. SCALE: N/A

                                                                                                                                                                                                      DATE: SEPT. 30, 2022

                                                                                                                                                                                                           ã COPYRIGHT 2022



                                                                                                                                                                                                                SHEET NO.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DP1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             9 of 41
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ENGINEERING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     KEY NOTES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3
                                                       TWO RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                5

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        JT Engineering, PC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                7                       7886 South 2325 East
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      South Weber, Utah 84405
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                8                         ph 801.866.7702

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                9                PRELIMINARY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                10               FOR REVIEW                             S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OF ES I ONAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             >             >             >               >                 >                >            >               >                   >                                                                                                                                   PR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       L I CENS ED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                No. 4940495-2202




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               G I NEER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              14
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5             1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             RITA PLACE                                                                                       4                                                                 12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   JASON H.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 THOMPSON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                13                                                   AT E       AH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          OF UT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   RITA PLACE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  56
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 11                55                54                   53                52               51              50 12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 14
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                14
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PARCEL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   D 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PARCEL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      E                         16
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 14

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3                                                                    1                                                                                                                  17

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              >              >             >                         >                >                 >            >               >               >                    >                 >                                                   18
                                                                                                                                 14                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 13

                                                                                                                                                   1
                                                                                                                                                                                              4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 HEPBURN WAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MEDICAL BUILDING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ADDRESS CITY COMMENTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 >                >                 >            >               >               >                    >




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  REVISIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3                                             1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DESCRIPTION
     GRANITE PEAKS HIGH SCHOOL                                                                                                                                  12                                                                                      11

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2                        10
                                                                                                                                                                    49            48                  47         46               45                   44                                                                                                                                6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 15

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      7                                                                                                15
                                                                                                                                          13




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     12/16/22 JHT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             7                                                                                                                                  2



                                                                                                                                                   >
                                                                                                                                          12                                                          3              1                                       9                                                                                                                                                          6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             >            >




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DATE
                                                                                                                                                                     >                >           >

                                                                                                                                                   >
                                                                                                                                                                                                  SAVVY COVE                                                                                                                                                                                                                              4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PARCEL
                                                                                                                                                   >




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        IRENE WAY
                                                                                                                                                                38                39              40             41               42                   43
                                                                                                                                 Y



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        8                                                                                                                         16
                                                                                                                                         A



                                                                                                                                                                12                                                                                          11
                                                                                                                                       W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2
                                                                                                                                     N




     14                                                                                                        14
                                                                                                                                 BUR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2                                                                                                                                                          17




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH
                                                                                                                                          HEP




                                2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SITE PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                  27              26            25               24                    23             22                                                           33            34                  35                  36                   37
                                9        15       14        13       12          11           10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         THE MONROE TOWNHOMES
         14                                                                                               9         PARCEL                                                                                                                                                          11
                            5           11                                                                12                                                                     12                                                                                                                                            11                                                                                  12
                                                                                                                      A 5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            600 EAST 3900 SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                   3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       13
          1
                                                                                                                                           >




                       18
                                                                         3                                                                                                                                               3        1                                                                                                                                          3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    >
                                                       18                             1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1                          5
                                                                                                                                                                >




                                                                                                                                                            3            5                                                                                                     9
                                                                                                                                           >




18   >             >        >       >         >   >     >    >   >       >   >            >   >       >   >         >                                                                     >   >            >     >
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      >            >         >

                                                                                                                                  5                                      5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    >
                                                            DOLORES COVE                                                                                                                                       BETSEY COVE                                                                                                                       ELEANOR COVE                                                               5
                                                                                                                                                                >




          4
                                                                                                                                           >




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    >
                                                                                                                                                                >




              18
                                                                                                                                           >




                                        11                                                                                  12                                                   12                                                                                       11                                                                                                                                       12
                            5
                                         1                   3       4           5                6       7             8                                                                                                                                                                                     11
                       PARCEL




                                                  2                                                                                                                               16                                                                                                                                                                                                                          28
                                                                                                                                                   13                                             17            18               19                    20             21                                                       32                31                  30                  29
                         B




         18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2




     14                                                               2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                                                                >




                                                                                                                                                   4        4
                                                                                                                                                                >




                                                                                                                             >        >        >        >       >            >




                                                                                                                                               3900 SOUTH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SHEET SIZE: ARCH D

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          H. SCALE: 1" = 10'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                V. SCALE: N/A

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DATE: SEPT. 30, 2022

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ã COPYRIGHT 2022



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SHEET NO.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SP1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          10 of 41
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ENGINEERING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 KEY NOTES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            6

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            7                       JT Engineering, PC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            8                       7886 South 2325 East
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  South Weber, Utah 84405
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            9                         ph 801.866.7702

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          17
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            10

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PRELIMINARY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            >             >                  >                 >                   >            >              >              >           >
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   20                                                       12               FOR REVIEW                             S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OF ES I ONAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                RITA PLACE                                                                                                                  13




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   L I CENS ED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            No. 4940495-2202




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           G I NEER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            14
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               JASON H.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            15                                               THOMPSON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     56             55                54                          53            52                   51           50                                                                                                                                             AT E       AH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PARCEL                                                                                                                    13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            16                                                        OF UT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            17

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PARCEL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            19

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            20

                                                                                                                                                                                                                              >             >             >                           >                       >             >             >               >           >             >                  >
                                                                                                                    4                                                                                                                                                            25                                                                                                                                                                         21

                                                                                                          11                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            22

                                                                                                                                                              8''W
                                                                                                                                                                                                      HEPBURN WAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                      8''W                                  8''W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           8''W                                               8''W                                      8''W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  >                       >             >             >               >           >             >
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            23




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ADDRESS CITY COMMENTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 28                                                                                                                                                                         24




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              REVISIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   25                                                                                                                                                                                18
                                                                                                               11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4                                  21
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            25




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                         49                48                47          46          45                    44                                                                                                                                                                                                               26

                                                                                                                                                                      SAVVY COVE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               8''W
                                                                                                        8''W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        IRENE WAY
                                                                                                                                                         13                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 27


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            28
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      15




                                                                                                                                    >
                                                             HEPBURN WAY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    29




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 01/10/23 JHT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               BY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4''W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 >        >
                                                                                                                                                              >            >                 >




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      36''
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PARCEL




                                                                                                                                    >
                                                                                                               10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       C




                                                                                                                                    >
                                                                                                                                                                          13




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               8''W
                                                                                                               8''W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      15                                                                                 1
                                                                                                                                                             38            39                40             41       42                43




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    36''
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               22
        PARCEL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            21
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          25
          A                                                                                                                 1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4''W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            UTILITY PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 23




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        25
                                                                                                                        8''W




                      15       14          13        12              11       10        9                                                                                 27                 26         25           24               23              22                                                               33             34                  35              36                 37
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        25

                                           DOLORES COVE                                                                                                                                          BETSEY COVE                                                                                                                          ELEANOR COVE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     THE MONROE TOWNHOMES
                                                                              13                                                    10                                13                                                                                                                                               13
                                                                                                    4
                                                                                                                        >




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        600 EAST 3900 SOUTH
    16                                                                                                                                      8
                                                                                                                7                                                                   17                                                                                                                                          17




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               8''W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    >
                                                                                                                                                         >
                                                                                                                        >




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      >
>   >
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  >         >
           >      >        >   >       >    >   >            >   >        >    >    >   >   >                                                                                   >        >        >     >




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    >
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4''W
                                                                                                                                                         >
                                                                                                                        >




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    >
                                                                                                                                                         >
                                                                                                                        >




                                                                              13                                                                                                                                                      13                                                                                                                                                  13
         PARCEL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         14
                                                                                                                                8''W




                                                                                                                                    14                                                                                                                        25                            22                25
           B




                      1            2       3             4            5         6       7       8   3                                                                 3    16                17        18            19               20              21                                                               32             31                  30              29            28         3

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          24

                                                                                                                                        9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4''W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      4''W

                                                                                                                                                                           27                                                                                                                                                                                                            29                    26
                                                                                                                                                         >




                  5                                                                                                      6                          26
                                                                                                                                                         >




                                                                                                    >            >              >               >        >        >


                                                                     19                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             6
                                                                                                                                    2
                                                    18                                                                                                                                                                                          19                                                                                                                                  18         19                            2




                                                                                                                        3900 SOUTH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SHEET SIZE: ARCH D

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      H. SCALE: 1" = 30'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            V. SCALE: N/A
                                                                                                                                                                                                        18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DATE: SEPT. 30, 2022

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ã COPYRIGHT 2022



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SHEET NO.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            UT1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        11 of 41
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ENGINEERING
                                                                                       GP7
                                                                                                                                                                                                       JT Engineering, PC
                                                                                                                                                                                                       7886 South 2325 East
                                                                                                                                                                                                     South Weber, Utah 84405
                                                                                                                                                                                                         ph 801.866.7702
                                                                                                                       RITA PLACE
                                                                                                                                                                                                 FOR REVIEW




                                                                                                                                                                  RITA PLACE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  OF ES I ONAL
                                                                                             PARCEL                                                                                                                             PR
                                                                                                       56    55   54     53        52        51        50




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EN
                                                                                                                                                                                                      L I CENS ED
                                                                                               D                                                                                                                               No. 4940495-2202




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               G I NEER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  JASON H.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                THOMPSON
                                                                                                                                                                               PARCEL                                          ST
                                                                                                                                                                                 E                                                  AT E       AH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OF UT


                                             GP5                                                                                                                                           GP6
                                                                                  HEPBURN WAY




                                                                        49   48   47   46    45   44




                                                                                                                                                                                                 REVISIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DESCRIPTION
                                                                                  SAVVY COVE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BY
                                                                        38   39   40   41    42   43




                                                                                                                                                                                                               #  DATE
                                                                                                                                                                               IRENE WAY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GRADING PLAN KEY SHEET
                                                 PARCEL
               15   14   13   12   11   10   9                               27   26   25   24    23    22                    33        34        35        36   37


                                                   A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH
                         DOLORES COVE                     HEPBURN WAY             BETSEY COVE                                  ELEANOR COVE




                                                                                                                                                                                                        THE MONROE TOWNHOMES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            600 EAST 3900 SOUTH
               1    2    3    4    5    6    7     8                         16   17   18   19    20    21                    32        31        30        29   28
      PARCEL
        B




GP2                                                                     GP3                                              GP4

                                                           3900 SOUTH

                                                                                                                                                                                                             SHEET SIZE: ARCH D

                                                                                                                                                                                                                         H. SCALE: 1" = 30'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                               V. SCALE: N/A

                                                                                                                                                                                                         DATE: SEPT. 30, 2022

                                                                                                                                                                                                              ã COPYRIGHT 2022



                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SHEET NO.

                                                                                                                                                                                                 GP-KEY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         12 of 41
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ENGINEERING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            STORM DRAIN STRUCTURE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            IDENTIFICATION SYMBOL AND NUMBER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SEE GP2-GP7 AND THE PP SHEETS FOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            STRUCTURE DESIGN INFORMATION SUCH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SEE SHEET PP7 FOR INFORMATION                                                                                    AS RIM AND FLOWLINE ELEVATIONS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ON STORMTECH SYSTEM.                                                                                       NOTES:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1. EROSION CONTROL PLAN AND SWPPP WILL BE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PREPARED BY A 3RD PARTY WITH THE FINAL DESIGN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AND APPROVALS. SAID PLAN WILL INCLUDE BMP'S               JT Engineering, PC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SUCH AS SILT FENCE, INLET PROTECTION, STABILIZED          7886 South 2325 East
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CONSTRUCTION ENTRANCE, CONCRETE WASHOUT                 South Weber, Utah 84405
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AREA, TOILET AREA, ETC.                                     ph 801.866.7702

                                                                                                                                                                                                                    J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CS-1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2. CMT ENGINEERING LABORATORES ENCOUNTERED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GROUNDWATER AT DEPTHS OF 14 TO 15.5 FEET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PRELIMINARY
                                                                                                                                                                                                          >    >          >           >             >           >           >           >               >                                                DURING THEIR FIELD EXPLORATION.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3. THE BOTTOM OF THE GRAVEL BELOW THE STORMTECH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            FOR REVIEW                             S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              OF ES I ONAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MC-7200 CHAMBERS WILL BE APPROXIMATELY 8 FEET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          RITA PLACE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  L I CENS ED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         BELOW THE TOP OF ASPHALT.                                                         No. 4940495-2202




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          G I NEER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      4. THE BOTTOM OF THE GRAVEL BELOW THE STORMTECH                                         JASON H.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SC-740 CHAMBERS WILL BE APPROXIMATELY 5 FEET                                       THOMPSON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         BELOW THE TOP OF ASPHALT.                                                         ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    K                                                                                                                                           AT E       AH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CS-1                                                                                                                                                 OF UT




                                                                                                             CS-2
                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SEE DEMOLITION PLAN FOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        INFORMATION REGARDING RIM AND
                                                                                                         H                                                                                        >       >    >                  >             >           >           >           >           >               >   >
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        INVERTS FOR STRUCTURES AND PIPES
                                                                                                     CS-1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ALSO SEE SHEET PP9
                                                                                                                                                                                                              HEPBURN WAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              >             >           >           >           >           >               >




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ADDRESS CITY COMMENTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             REVISIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SD
                                                                                                         G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               36''




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                     CS-1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SD
                                                                                                                                     >




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  36''




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                12/16/22 JHT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              BY
                                                                                                                                                                                     >        >
                                                                                                                                                     >       >           >


                                                                                                                                                             SAVVY COVE



                                                                                                                                     >




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DATE
                                                                                                                                     >




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        36''
                                                                                                         F

                                                                                                                                   Y
                                                                                                     CS-1


                                     C
                                    CS-1
                                                            D
                                                           CS-1
                                                                                               E
                                                                                              CS-1                              WA                                                                                                                                                                                                                    EXISTING 36" PIPE AND DITCH TO BE
                                                                                                                             RN                                                                                                                                                                                                                       RE-ROUTED AROUND BUILDINGS.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GRADING PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SEE SHEET PP8 & PP9 FOR DETAILS.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         IRENE WAY
                                                                                                                                             U




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SEE SHEET GP6 FOR DETAILS
                                                                                                                                           B

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ABOUT DETENTION BASIN
                                                                                                                                         P

                      B
                                                                                                                                       E

                     CS-1
 SEE SHEET PP4 FOR
                                                                                                                                     H


   INFORMATION ON




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    THE MONROE TOWNHOMES
STORMTECH SYSTEM
                                                                                                                             >




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       600 EAST 3900 SOUTH
                                                   DOLORES COVE                                                                                                              BETSEY COVE                                                                ELEANOR COVE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        >
                                                                                                                                                 >
                                                                                                                             >




                                                                                                                                                                                          >
                            >   >
                                                                                                                                                                                                      >   >
                                    >      >   >   >   >          >   >   >   >   >   >   >          >       >                                                   >   >       >   >




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        >
                                                                                                                                                 >
                                                                                                                             >




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        >
                                                                                                                                                 >
                                                                                                                             >




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SEE SHEET PP5 FOR INFORMATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ON STORMTECH SYSTEM.

                      A
                     CS-1
                                                                                                                                                 >
                                                                                                                                                 >




                                                                                                                     >   >       >        >      >       >




                                                                                                                              3900 SOUTH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SHEET SIZE: ARCH D

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     H. SCALE: 1" = 30'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           V. SCALE: N/A

                                                                                                                                                                                 SEE SHEET PP5 FOR INFORMATION                            SEE SHEET PP8 FOR                                                                                                                                                          DATE: SEPT. 30, 2022
                                                                                                                                                                                 ON STORMTECH SYSTEM.                                     DESIGN INFORMATION.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ã COPYRIGHT 2022



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SHEET NO.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GP1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     13 of 41
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ENGINEERING
                                                                                          GRANITE PEAKS HIGH SCHOOL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  JT Engineering, PC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  7886 South 2325 East
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                South Weber, Utah 84405
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ph 801.866.7702

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            O                                     S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OF ES I ONAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 L I CENS ED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          No. 4940495-2202




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 G I NEER
                                                                                                                                                    FFE:4287.87'                                                                                                                                                                             JASON H.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           THOMPSON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ST
                                                                         LOT 15                    LOT 14                   LOT 13                  LOT 12                    LOT 11                      LOT 10                  LOT 9                                                                                                        AT E       AH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    OF UT
                                                                         562 E                     564 E                    566 E                   568 E                         572 E                   576 E                   578 E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    >
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PARCEL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    >   >




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ADDRESS CITY COMMENTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        >




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            REVISIONS
GRANITE PEAKS HIGH SCHOOL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        >




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        >
                            >   >   >   >   >    >   >   >   >   >   >     >      >   >    >   >     >      >   >   >   >    >      >   >   >   >   >     >   >   >       >   >      >    >   >   >   >     >     >   >   >   >    >      >   >   >   >   >




                                                                                                                                                        OLO           O




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        >
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        >




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               12/16/22 JHT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        >




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        >




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        >
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        >
                                                PARCEL
                                                  B




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH
                                                                     561 E                         563 E                    567 E                   569 E                         571 E                   573 E                   577 E                   579 E
                                                                         LOT 1                                              LOT 3                   LOT 4                         LOT 5                   LOT 6                   LOT 7                   LOT 8
                                                                                                   LOT 2
                                                                                                                                                         FFE:4288.05'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   THE MONROE TOWNHOMES



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LOT 1 TO 15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              600 EAST 3900 SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          >     >   >   >   >   >   >       >   >   >   >




                                                                                                                                                         3900 O T                                                                                                                                                       SHEET SIZE: ARCH D

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    H. SCALE: 1" = 10'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          V. SCALE: N/A

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DATE: SEPT. 30, 2022

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ã COPYRIGHT 2022



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SHEET NO.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    14 of 41
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ENGINEERING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   JT Engineering, PC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   7886 South 2325 East
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 South Weber, Utah 84405
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ph 801.866.7702

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             O                                     S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              OF ES I ONAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  L I CENS ED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           No. 4940495-2202




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   G I NEER
                                                                                                                                                      FFE:4289.22'                                                                                            JASON H.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            THOMPSON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ST
                                                                                        LOT 27                   LOT 26                  LOT 25                     LOT 24                      LOT 23              LOT 22                                      AT E       AH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OF UT
                                                                                        588 E                    592 E                    594 E                         596 E                   598 E               602 E




     PARCEL
                            >




       A
                            >




                                                                >
                                >




                                                                >




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ADDRESS CITY COMMENTS
                                >




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             REVISIONS
                                                                >
                                                                                                                                              T             O
                                >




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DESCRIPTION
                                                                >
                                >




>
                                                                                                                                                                >   >     >     >   >   >   >     >     >   >   >
                                                                                             >   >   >   >   >     >     >   >   >   >    >       >     >




                                                                >
                                >




                                                                >
                                >




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                12/16/22 JHT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              BY
                                                                >
                                >




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DATE
                                                                >
                                >




                                                                >




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1
                                >




                                                                >
                                >




    LOT 8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH
                                                                                        589 E                    591 E                   593 E                      597 E                       599 E               603 E
                                                                                        LOT 16                   LOT 17                  LOT 18                     LOT 19                      LOT 20              LOT 21
                                                                                                                                                      FFE:4288.56'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    THE MONROE TOWNHOMES



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LOT 16 TO 27
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                600 EAST 3900 SOUTH
                                                                >
                                                                >
                                                                >
                                                                >
                                                                >
                                                                >




>     >     >   >   >   >   >       >   >   >   >   >   >   >       >   >   >   >   >    >




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SHEET SIZE: ARCH D

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     H. SCALE: 1" = 10'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           V. SCALE: N/A

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     DATE: SEPT. 30, 2022

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ã COPYRIGHT 2022



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SHEET NO.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     15 of 41
                                                                                                                                                                   ENGINEERING
                                                                                SD
                                                                               3 6 ''
                                                                       SD
                                                                      3 6 ''
                                                                                                  JT Engineering, PC
                                                                                                  7886 South 2325 East
                                                                                                South Weber, Utah 84405
                                                                                                    ph 801.866.7702

                                                                                                                          L
                                                                                            O                                     S
                                                                                                                             OF ES I ONAL
                                                                                                                           PR




                                                                                                                                                              EN
                                                                                                 L I CENS ED
                                                                                                                          No. 4940495-2202




                                                                                                                                                                G I NEER
                                FFE:4289.10'                                                                                 JASON H.
                                                                                                                           THOMPSON
                                                                                                                          ST
              LOT 33   LOT 34     LOT 35            LOT 36   LOT 37                                                            AT E
                                                                                                                                    OF UT
                                                                                                                                          AH

              612 E    614 E       618 E            622 E    624 E



    LOT 22




                                                                                        >
                                                                                        >




                                                                                                                               ADDRESS CITY COMMENTS
                                                                                        >




                                                                                            REVISIONS
                                           L    O      O




                                                                                        >




                                                                                                             DESCRIPTION
                                                                                        >
>




                                                                                        >
                                                                                        >




                                                                                                                               12/16/22 JHT
                                                                                                             BY
                                                                                        >




                                                                                                             DATE
                                                                                        >




                                                                                                          #
                                                                                                          1
                                                                                        >
                                                                                        >
    LOT 21




                                                                                                                                                                SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH
             611 E     613 E       617 E            619 E    623 E
             LOT 32    LOT 31     LOT 30            LOT 29   LOT 28
                                 FFE:4287.94'




                                                                                                                 L
                                                                                                   THE MONROE TOWNHOMES



                                                                                                                                                       LOT 28 37
                                                                                                                                                                             600 EAST 3900 SOUTH
                                                                                                        SHEET SIZE: ARCH D

                                                                                                                    H. SCALE: 1" = 10'

                                                                                                                          V. SCALE: N/A

                                                                                                    DATE: SEPT. 30, 2022

                                                                                                         ã COPYRIGHT 2022



                                                                                                              SHEET NO.

                                                                                                                                                         4
                                                                                                                    16 of 41
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ENGINEERING
                                                                                  >       >   >   >       >    >   >   >       >       >       >       >       >       >         JT Engineering, PC
                                                                                                                                                                                 7886 South 2325 East
                                                                                                                                                                               South Weber, Utah 84405
                                                                                                                                                                                   ph 801.866.7702

                                                                                                                                                                                                         L
                                                                                                                                                                           O                                     S
                                                                                                                                                                                                            OF ES I ONAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                          PR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EN
                                                                                                                                                                                L I CENS ED
                                                                                                                                                                                                         No. 4940495-2202




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             G I NEER
                                                                                                                                                                                                            JASON H.
                                                                                                                                                                                                          THOMPSON
                                                                                                                                                                                                         ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                              AT E       AH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OF UT

                                                                                                                           >       >       >       >       >       >




                                                  FFE:4289.32'
    LOT 49               LOT 48           LOT 47                LOT 46           LOT 45               LOT 44




                                                                                                                                                                           REVISIONS
    586 E                 588 E           592 E                 596 E            598 E                 602 E




                                                                                                                                                                                            DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                            BY
>




                                                                                                                                                                                            DATE
>
>




                                                                                                                                                                                         #
>




                                                   O
>




                                                            >      >     >   >    >       >   >
     >       >   >   >       >    >   >     >          >
>
>




                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH
>
>




                                                                                                                                                                                                L
                                                                                                                                                                                  THE MONROE TOWNHOMES



                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LOT 38 49
>




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           600 EAST 3900 SOUTH
>




    587 E                589 E             593 E                597 E            599 E                601 E
    LOT 38               LOT 39           LOT 40                LOT 41           LOT 42               LOT 43
                                                FFE:4289.32'




                                                                                                                                                                                       SHEET SIZE: ARCH D

                                                                                                                                                                                                   H. SCALE: 1" = 10'

                                                                                                                                                                                                         V. SCALE: N/A

                                                                                                                                                                                   DATE: SEPT. 30, 2022

                                                                                                                                                                                        ã COPYRIGHT 2022



                                                                                                                                                                                             SHEET NO.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                      5
                                                                                                                                                                                                   17 of 41
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ENGINEERING
>       >       >       >       >       >       >       >       >       >         >       >          >        >       >       >       >        >       >       >          >       >       >       >     >        >      >                                                                                                                                              JT Engineering, PC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       7886 South 2325 East
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     South Weber, Utah 84405
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ph 801.866.7702

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PRELIMINARY
                                                                                HEPBURN WAY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     FOR REVIEW                             S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  OF ES I ONAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      L I CENS ED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               No. 4940495-2202




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              G I NEER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  JASON H.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                THOMPSON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    AT E       AH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OF UT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         36''
    >       >       >       >       >       >       >       >       >       >         >       >          >        >       >       >       >        >       >       >          >       >       >




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                36''
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 IRENE WAY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       36''




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ADDRESS CITY COMMENTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 REVISIONS
                                                                                                                                              6" PERFORATED PIPE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                              APPROXIMATELY 1 FOOT
                                                                                                                                              BELOW GRADE. USED TO AID




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             36''
                                                                                                                                              IN DISPERSION OF STORM
                                                                                                                                              RUNOFF INTO UTELITE.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    12/16/22 JHT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    36''




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DETENTION BASIN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             36''
                                                                                                  BOUNDARY OF UTELITE FILL. DO                                                                                                                                                                                  TOP OF BASIN: 4288.1'
                                                                                                  NOT PLACE UNDER SIDEWALK.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                HIGH WATER LEVEL: 4287.1'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GRADING PLAN
                                                                                                  LIMITS SHOWN ARE 3' FROM EDGE
                                                                                                  OF SIDEWALK.                                                                                                                                                                                                  LOWEST GRADE: 4286.1'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                BELOW GRADE, UTELITE (45% VOID RATIO) WILL BE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                UTILIZED TO SUPPLEMENT ABOVE GRADE STORAGE.
                                                                                                             PARCEL                                                                                                                                                                                             FLOOR OF UTELITE: 4284.25'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      D S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    36''
                                                                                                               C                                                                                                                                                                                                VOLUME PROVIDED ABOVE GRADE: 450 CU. FT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                    EXTENT OF                                                                                                   VOLUME PROVIDED BELOW GRADE IN UTELITE VOID




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        THE MONROE TOWNHOMES
                                                                                                                                                                                                  UTELITE AREA                                                                                                  SPACE: 5,720 CU. FT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VOLUME REQUIRED: 5,643 CU. FT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VOLUME PROVIDED: 6,170 CU. FT.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           600 EAST 3900 SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          36''
                                                                                                                                                                       8" PERFORATED PIPE AT BASE OF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SD
                                                                                                                                                                       UTELITE AGGREGATE TO BE USED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   36''
                                                                                                                                                                       TO PASS LOW FLOWS THROUGH
                                                                                                                                                                       THE BASIN AND TO COLLECT
                                                                                                                                                                       WATER THAT PERCOLATES
                                                                                                                                                                       THROUGH THE UTELITE.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            36''
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     36''
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SHEET SIZE: ARCH D
                                                                                                                                              BOUNDARY OF UTELITE FILL. DO
                                                                                                                                              NOT PLACE UNDER SIDEWALK.
                                                                                                                                              LIMITS SHOWN ARE 3' FROM EDGE                                                                                                                                                                                                              H. SCALE: 1" = 10'
                                                                                                                                              OF SIDEWALK.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               V. SCALE: N/A

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DATE: SEPT. 30, 2022

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ã COPYRIGHT 2022



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SHEET NO.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          GP6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         18 of 41
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ENGINEERING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        JT Engineering, PC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        7886 South 2325 East
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      South Weber, Utah 84405
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ph 801.866.7702

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OF ES I ONAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       L I CENS ED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                No. 4940495-2202




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    G I NEER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   JASON H.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 THOMPSON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     AT E       AH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          OF UT
                         >       >         >       >           >       >       >       >       >          >       >       >         >           >   >       >         >       >       >       >           >   >       >          >       >       >       >




                                                                                                                                        T       L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  REVISIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DESCRIPTION
    PARCEL
      D

                                     601 E                             603 E                           609 E                            611 E                       613 E                         617 E                       619 E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BY
                                     LOT 56                            LOT 55                          LOT 54                       LOT 53                          LOT 52                    LOT 51                          LOT 50
                                                                                                                                  FFE:4289.32'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                #  DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PARCEL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         THE MONROE TOWNHOMES



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LOT 50 56
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  600 EAST 3900 SOUTH
>      >     >   >   >       >         >       >           >                   >       >       >          >       >       >         >       >       >       >         >       >       >       >       >       >       >          >       >       >       >       >       >   >   >   >




                                                       >           >               >       >       >          >       >       >         >       >       >       >         >       >       >       >       >       >       >          >       >       >       >       >




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SHEET SIZE: ARCH D

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          H. SCALE: 1" = 10'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                V. SCALE: N/A

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DATE: SEPT. 30, 2022

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ã COPYRIGHT 2022



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SHEET NO.


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          19 of 41
                                                                                                                      ENGINEERING
X




                          X
                                                                        JT Engineering, PC
                                                                        7886 South 2325 East
                                                                      South Weber, Utah 84405
                                                                          ph 801.866.7702

                                                                  FOR REVIEW
                                                                                                        S
                                                                                                   OF ES I ONAL
                                                                                                 PR

        SECTION A             SECTION E         SECTION J




                                                                                                                  EN
                                                                       L I CENS ED
                                                                                                No. 4940495-2202




                                                                                                                    G I NEER
                                                                                                   JASON H.
                                                                                                 THOMPSON
         SCALE: 1" = 4'        SCALE: 1" = 4'    SCALE: 1" = 4'                                 ST
                                                                                                     AT E       AH
                                                                                                          OF UT
X




                               X




                                                                  REVISIONS
                                                                                   DESCRIPTION
        SECTION B             SECTION F         SECTION K
         SCALE: 1" = 4'        SCALE: 1" = 4'    SCALE: 1" = 4'




                                                                                #  BY
                                                                                   DATE




                                                                                                CROSS SECTIONS
    X




                                                                                                                     SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH
                                   X




                                                                         THE MONROE TOWNHOMES




                                                                                                                                  600 EAST 3900 SOUTH
        SECTION C
         SCALE: 1" = 4'

                              SECTION G
                               SCALE: 1" = 4'
    X




                          X




                                                                              SHEET SIZE: ARCH D



        SECTION D
                                                                                                H. SCALE: N/A

                                                                                            V. SCALE: 1" = 4'
         SCALE: 1" = 4'                                                   DATE: SEPT. 30, 2022


                              SECTION H                                        ã COPYRIGHT 2022


                               SCALE: 1" = 4'                                       SHEET NO.

                                                                                                CS1
                                                                                           20 of 41
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ENGINEERING
                                                                            >
                                 LOT 49
                                      915 SQ. FT.




                                                                                                                   LOT 38
                                                                                                                        1,223 SQ. FT.
                                                                            >
                                                                                                                                                                   JT Engineering, PC
                                                                                                                                                                   7886 South 2325 East
                                                                                                                                                                 South Weber, Utah 84405
                                                                                                                                                                     ph 801.866.7702

                                                                                                                                                             FOR REVIEW
                                                                                                                                                                                                   S
                                                                                                                                                                                              OF ES I ONAL
                                                                                                                                                                                            PR




                                                                                                                                                                                                             EN
                                                                                                                                                                  L I CENS ED
                                                                                                                                                                                           No. 4940495-2202




                                                                                                                                                                                                               G I NEER
                                                                                                                                                                                              JASON H.
                                                        >   >   >   >   >       >   >   >       >     >     >                                                                               THOMPSON
                                                                                                                                                                                           ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                AT E       AH
                                                                                                                                                                                                     OF UT




                               BEGIN HORIZONTAL CURVE                                       END HORIZONTAL CURVE




 I     BEGIN RETAINING WALL                                                                                                             END RETAINING WALL




                                                                                                                                                             REVISIONS
CS-2




                                                                                                                                                                              DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                              BY
                                                                                                                                                                              DATE
                              CROSS SECTION I




                                                                                                                                                                           #
                               STA. 9+90.00 TO 11+80.00




                                                                                                                                                                                           CROSS SECTION I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                    THE MONROE TOWNHOMES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             600 EAST 3900 SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                         SHEET SIZE: ARCH D

                                                                                                                                                                                     H. SCALE: 1" = 10'

                                                                                                                                                                                   V. SCALE: 1" = 2.5'

                                                                                                                                                                     DATE: SEPT. 30, 2022

                                                                                                                                                                          ã COPYRIGHT 2022



                                                                                                                                                                               SHEET NO.

                                                                                                                                                                                       CS2
                                                                                                                                                                                           21of 41
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ENGINEERING
                                                                                                                                                                                               PP9
                                                                                                       PP7                                                                                                 JT Engineering, PC
                                                                                                                                                                                                           7886 South 2325 East
                                                                                                                                                                                                         South Weber, Utah 84405
                                                                                                                                                                                                             ph 801.866.7702
                                                                                                                        RITA PLACE
                                                                                                                                                                                                     FOR REVIEW




                                                                                                                                                                      RITA PLACE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      OF ES I ONAL
                                                                                             PARCEL                                                                                                                                 PR
                                                                                                       56    55    54       53        52        51        50




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EN
                                                                                                                                                                                                          L I CENS ED
                                                                                               D                                                                                                                                   No. 4940495-2202




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       G I NEER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      JASON H.

                                                                                PP2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    THOMPSON
                                                                                                                                                                                   PARCEL                                          ST
                                                                                                                                                                                     E                                                  AT E       AH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OF UT




                                             PP1
                                                                                                                  HEPBURN WAY



                                   PP6                                49   48   47     46    45   44


                                                                                                                             10




                                                                                                                                                                                                     REVISIONS
                                                                                                                         P




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DESCRIPTION
                                                                                SAVVY COVE                              P
                                                                                                                                      PARCEL
                                                                                                                                        C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BY
                                                                      38   39   40     41    42   43




                                                                                                                                                                                                                   #  DATE



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PLAN AND PROFILE KEY SHEET
PP4

                                               PARCEL
          15   14   13   12   11    10   9                                 27   26    25    24    23    22                       33        34        35        36    37


                                                 A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH
                    DOLORES COVE                        HEPBURN WAY             BETSEY COVE                   PP5                 ELEANOR COVE




                                                                                                                                                                                                            THE MONROE TOWNHOMES
                                                                                                                                                                                   IRENE WAY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    600 EAST 3900 SOUTH
          1    2    3    4    5     6    7     8                           16   17    18    19    20    21                       32        31        30        29    28
 PARCEL
   B




                                                                                                                        8




                                                                                                                                                                    PP3
                                                                                                                    P
                                                                                                                   P
                                                                                     3900 SOUTH

                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SHEET SIZE: ARCH D

                                                                                                                                                                                                                             H. SCALE: 1" = 30'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   V. SCALE: N/A

                                                                                                                                                                                                             DATE: SEPT. 30, 2022

                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ã COPYRIGHT 2022



                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SHEET NO.

                                                                                                                                                                                                     PP-KEY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              22 of 41
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ENGINEERING
                                            SEE SHEETPP4
                                DELORES COVE




                                                                       >
                                                                                                                                                                                                       JT Engineering, PC
                                                                                                                                                                                                       7886 South 2325 East




                                                                       >
                                                                                                                                                                                                     South Weber, Utah 84405




                                                                                                LOT 9
                                 LOT 7
                                                                                                                                                                                                         ph 801.866.7702

                                                                                                                                                                                                                               L




                                                                       >
                                                                                                                                                                                                 O




                                                                       >
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  OF ES I ONAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PR




                                                                                           PARCEL
                                LOT 8




                                                                       >
O T




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EN
                                                                                                                                                                                                      L I CENS ED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               No. 4940495-2202




                                                                                             A
      >




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  G I NEER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  JASON H.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                THOMPSON




      >
                                                                                                                                                                 8''W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ST
                                                                                                                                      8''W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    AT E       AH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OF UT


39

      >
                                                                                                                      8''W
                                        >              >       >           >       >        >




      >
                                                                                                         8''W
                      8''W                      8''W                                                                                     >   >   >       >   >



      >
      >
      >




                                                                                                                             LOT 38




                                                                                                                                                                  LOT 49




                                                                                                                                                                                   8''W
          >   >   >                         >              >       >           >       >
      >




                                                                                                                                                     >
      >




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ADDRESS CITY COMMENTS
                             LOT 16




                                                                                                LOT 27




                                                                                                                             LOT 39




                                                                                                                                                                  LOT 48
      >




                                                                                                                                                     >




                                                                                                                                                                                                 REVISIONS
                                                                       >




                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                     >




                                                                                                                                                                                   8''W
                                                                       >
                                                                       >
                                      BETSEY COVE                                                                                     SAVVY COVE                           MATCHLINE STA 14+00




                                                                                                                                                     >
                                                SEE SHEETPP4                                                                          SEE SHEETPP6                             SEE SHEETPP2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    01/10/23 JHT
                                                                                                                                                                                                               #  BY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                               1
                                                                                                                HEPBURN WAY
                                                                                                                STA. 10+00.00 TO 14+00.00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                        THE MONROE TOWNHOMES


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TO 14
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 600 EAST 3900 SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            T 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                             SHEET SIZE: ARCH D

                                                                                                                                                                                                                         H. SCALE: 1" = 20'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                           V. SCALE: 1" = 5'

                                                                                                                                                                                                         DATE: SEPT. 30, 2022

                                                                                                                                                                                                              ã COPYRIGHT 2022



                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SHEET NO.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          23 of 41
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ENGINEERING
                                                                                                                                                            SEE SHEETPP7
                                                                                                                                                            RITA PLACE
                                                                                                                                                                                                         JT Engineering, PC
                                                              LOT 56       LOT 55         LOT 54          LOT 53       LOT 52     LOT 51       LOT 50                                                    7886 South 2325 East
                                                                                                                                                                                                       South Weber, Utah 84405




                                                                                                                                                                  L
                                            PARCEL                                                                                                                                                         ph 801.866.7702
                                              D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 L




        MATCHLINE STA 14+00




                                                                                                                                                                  T
                                                                                                                                                                                 PARCEL
                                                                                                                                                                                   E               O                                     S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    OF ES I ONAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EN
                                                                                                                                                                                                        L I CENS ED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 No. 4940495-2202




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            G I NEER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    JASON H.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  THOMPSON




SEE SHEETPP1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AH
                                                >     >       >    >                >      >       >         >     >       >      >    >         >      >     >        >     >
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      AT E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OF UT




                                                                                                                                                                                             G E
                                    8''W             8''W                   8''W                   8''W                    8''W                 8''W                  8''W
                                                                                                                                                                                         E D
                                                                       >              >     >      >         >     >        >     >        >     >      >     >
                                                                                                                                                                                      A Y LT
                                                                                                                                                                                    W   H
                                                                                                                                                                                  E SP PP3A
                                                                                                                                                                                N
                                                                                                                                                                             IREOF ASHEET
                                                                                                                                                                                   EES




                                                                                                                                                                                     8''W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ADDRESS CITY COMMENTS
                                           LOT 45                                         PARCEL
                          LOT 47 LOT 46              LOT 44




                                                                                                                                                                                                   REVISIONS
                                                                                   4''W
                                                                                            C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      12/16/22 JHT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 #  BY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1
                                                                            HEPBURN WAY
                                                                            STA. 14+00.00 TO 16+90.00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                          THE MONROE TOWNHOMES


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              T 14 00 TO 16
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           600 EAST 3900 SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                               SHEET SIZE: ARCH D

                                                                                                                                                                                                                           H. SCALE: 1" = 20'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                             V. SCALE: 1" = 5'

                                                                                                                                                                                                           DATE: SEPT. 30, 2022

                                                                                                                                                                                                                ã COPYRIGHT 2022



                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SHEET NO.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            24 of 41
                                                                                                                                                                                                          ENGINEERING
                SEE SHEETPP5                                                              SEE SHEETPP2
         ELEANOR COVE                                                                    HEPBURN WAY




                                                                                               8''W
       LOT 29




                                           LOT 36




                                                                                                          RITA PLACE
                                                                                                      >




                                                                                                                  SEE SHEETPP7
                                                                                           >
                                                                                                                                       JT Engineering, PC
                                                                                                                                       7886 South 2325 East




                                                                                                      >
                                                                                                                                     South Weber, Utah 84405




                                                                                           >
       LOT 28




                                           LOT 37
                                                                                                                                         ph 801.866.7702

                                                                                                                                                               L




                                                                         PARCEL




                                                                                               8''W




                                                                                                      >
                                                                                                                                 O




                                                                           C
                                                                                                                                                                       S
                                                                                                                                                                  OF ES I ONAL
                                                                                                                                                                PR




                                                                                                      >




                                                                                                                                                                                                     EN
                                                                                                                                      L I CENS ED
                                                                                                                                                               No. 4940495-2202




                                                                                                                                                                                                       G I NEER
                                                                                                                                                                  JASON H.
                >     >    >   >   >


                                                                                                                                                                THOMPSON
                                                                                                                                                               ST
8''W                8''W                8''W             8''W     8''W            8''W                                                                              AT E       AH
                                                                                                                                                                         OF UT




                                                                                                                                                                    ADDRESS CITY COMMENTS
                                                                                                                                 REVISIONS
                                                                                                                                                  DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                    12/16/22 JHT
                                                                                                                                               #  BY
                                                                                                                                                  DATE
                                                                                                                                               1
                                                                                                                                                           LT
         IRENE WAY EDGE OF ASPHALT
                                       STA. 9+80.00 TO 13+00.00




                                                                                                                                                                                                         SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH
                                                                                                                                        THE MONROE TOWNHOMES

                                                                                                                                                           O
                                                                                                                                                                                            T 9 8 TO 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      600 EAST 3900 SOUTH
                                                                                                                                             SHEET SIZE: ARCH D

                                                                                                                                                         H. SCALE: 1" = 20'

                                                                                                                                                           V. SCALE: 1" = 5'

                                                                                                                                         DATE: SEPT. 30, 2022

                                                                                                                                              ã COPYRIGHT 2022



                                                                                                                                                   SHEET NO.

                                                                                                                                                                                               3
                                                                                                                                                          25 of 41
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ENGINEERING
                                                                                                                       SEE SHEETPP1
                                                                                                                   HEPBURN WAY




                                                                                                                                   8''W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     JT Engineering, PC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     7886 South 2325 East
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   South Weber, Utah 84405
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ph 801.866.7702

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             L




                                                                                                                                              8''W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               O                                     S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                OF ES I ONAL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           BETSEY COVE
                      LOT 15       LOT 14       LOT 13        LOT 12      LOT 11          LOT 10       LOT 9                                                                    LOT 27       LOT 26        LOT 25                                                                                             PR
                                                                                                                   PARCEL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SECTION 1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    L I CENS ED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             No. 4940495-2202




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          G I NEER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SEE SHEETPP5
                                                                                                                     A                                                                                                                                                                                          JASON H.




                                                                                                                                          >
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   STA. 10+00.00 TO 11+31.89
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              THOMPSON




                                                                                                                                                                    >
                                                                                                                                          >
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  AT E       AH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OF UT




                                                                                                                                                                    >
                                                                                                                                          >
>     >   >   >   >    >   >   >      >     >   >   >     >     >     >
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       >
                                                                          >      >    >    >   >   >     >     >   >                                                                >    >     >   >       >   >




                                                        OLO         O




                                                                                                                                                                    >
                                                                                                                                          >
                                                                                                                                                                                                       T           O




                                                                                                                                                                    >
                                                                                                                                          >




                                                                                                                                                     8''W




                                                                                                                                                                    >
                                                                                                                                          >
                      LOT 1                     LOT 3         LOT 4           LOT 5       LOT 6        LOT 7       LOT 8                                                        LOT 16       LOT 17        LOT 18
                                   LOT 2
          PARCEL
            B




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ADDRESS CITY COMMENTS
                                                                                                                                                     8''W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               REVISIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                    >
                                                                                                                                                                    >
                                                                                                                                                                    >




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  12/16/22 JHT
                                                                                                                       >   >   >          >             >   >   >       >   >   >




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                BY
1
PP4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             #  DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1
                                                DOLORES AND BETSY COVE
                                                                      STA. 9+80.00 TO 13+50.00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          T 9 80 TO 13 50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      THE MONROE TOWNHOMES

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         600 EAST 3900 SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OLO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SHEET SIZE: ARCH D

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       H. SCALE: 1" = 20'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         V. SCALE: 1" = 5'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DATE: SEPT. 30, 2022

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ã COPYRIGHT 2022



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SHEET NO.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        26 of 41
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ENGINEERING
                                                                                                                                                  SEE SHEETPP3
                                                                                                                                                  IRENE WAY




                                                                               4''W
                                                                                                                  PARCEL
                                                                                                                    C
                                                                                                                                                                       JT Engineering, PC
                                                                                                                                                                       7886 South 2325 East
                                                                                                                                                                     South Weber, Utah 84405
                                                                                                                                                                         ph 801.866.7702




                                                                               4''W
                                                                                                                                                                                               L
                                                                                                                                                                 O                                     S
                                                                                                                                                                                                  OF ES I ONAL
                  LOT 26 LOT 25           LOT 24                                                                                                                                                PR




        BETSEY COVE
                                                       LOT 23       LOT 22                          LOT 33    LOT 34   LOT 35   LOT 36   LOT 37




                                                                                                                                                          8''W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EN
                                                                                                                                                                      L I CENS ED
                                                                                                                                                                                               No. 4940495-2202




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             G I NEER
                                                                                                                                                                                                  JASON H.




SEE SHEETPP4
                                                                                                                                                                                                THOMPSON




                                                                                                                                                      >
                                      T        O                                                          L   O    O                                                                           ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                    AT E       AH
                                                                                                                                                                                                         OF UT




                                                                                                                                                      >
                                           >   >   >      >     >
                      >   >   >   >




                                                                                                                                                      >
                                                                                      4''W




                                                                                                                                                          8''W
                                                                                                                                                      >
                                                                                                                                                      >
                      LOT 17 LOT 18       LOT 19       LOT 20       LOT 21                          LOT 32    LOT 31   LOT 30   LOT 29   LOT 28




                                                                                                                                                                                                    ADDRESS CITY COMMENTS
                                                                                                                                                                 REVISIONS
                                                                                             4''W
                                                                                                       4''W            4''W




                                                                                                                                                                                  DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                          8''W




                                                                                                                                                                                                    12/16/22 JHT
                                                                                                                                                                               #  BY
                                                                                                                                                                                  DATE
                                                                                                                                                                               1
                                                          BETSY AND ELEANOR COVE
                                                                             STA. 13+00.00 TO 16+00.00




                                                                                                                                                                                           O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            T 13 00 TO 16 00
                                                                                                                                                                                           O
                                                                                                                                                                        THE MONROE TOWNHOMES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            600 EAST 3900 SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                           L
                                                                                                                                                                                           T
                                                                                                                                                                             SHEET SIZE: ARCH D

                                                                                                                                                                                         H. SCALE: 1" = 20'

                                                                                                                                                                                           V. SCALE: 1" = 5'

                                                                                                                                                                         DATE: SEPT. 30, 2022

                                                                                                                                                                              ã COPYRIGHT 2022



                                                                                                                                                                                   SHEET NO.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 5
                                                                                                                                                                                          27 of 41
                                                                                                                                                                                  ENGINEERING
 SEE SHEETPP1                                                                                             JT Engineering, PC

HEPBURN WAY
                                                                                                          7886 South 2325 East
                                                                                                        South Weber, Utah 84405
                                                                                                            ph 801.866.7702

                                                                                                                                  L
                                                                                                    O                                     S
                                                                                                                                     OF ES I ONAL
                                                                                                                                   PR
                            LOT 49   LOT 48   LOT 47   LOT 46     LOT 45   LOT 44




                                                                                             4''W




                                                                                                                                                                             EN
                                                                                                         L I CENS ED
   8''W
                                                                                    PARCEL                                        No. 4940495-2202




                                                                                                                                                                               G I NEER
                                                                                                                                     JASON H.
                                                                                      C                                            THOMPSON
                                                                                                                                  ST
                                                                                                                                                  AH




                        >
                                                                                                                                       AT E
                                                              O                                                                             OF UT




                        >
                                                          >       >    >
                                >    >    >    >




                        >




                                                                                             4''W
                        >
          8''W




                        >
                            LOT 38   LOT 39   LOT 40   LOT 41     LOT 42   LOT 43




                                                                                                                                       ADDRESS CITY COMMENTS
                                                                                             4''W




                                                                                                    REVISIONS
                 8''W
HEPBURN WAY




                                                                                                                     DESCRIPTION
 SEE SHEETPP1




                                                                                                                                       12/16/22 JHT
                                                                                                                  #  BY
                                                                                                                     DATE
                                                                                                                  1
                                               SAVVY COVE
                                              STA. 9+80.00 TO 12+60.00




                                                                                                                                                                                 SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH
                                                                                                                                                               T 9 80 TO 12 50
                                                                                                           THE MONROE TOWNHOMES

                                                                                                                              O
                                                                                                                                                                                              600 EAST 3900 SOUTH
                                                                                                                SHEET SIZE: ARCH D

                                                                                                                            H. SCALE: 1" = 20'

                                                                                                                              V. SCALE: 1" = 5'

                                                                                                            DATE: SEPT. 30, 2022

                                                                                                                 ã COPYRIGHT 2022



                                                                                                                      SHEET NO.

                                                                                                                                                                    6
                                                                                                                             28 of 41
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ENGINEERING
                                                                                                                                                     SEE SHEETPP2                            SEE THIS SHEET
                                                                                                                                                    HEPBURN WAY                              RITA PLACE




                                                                                                                                                                 >




                                                                                                                                                                                                     >
                                                                                                                                                     >




                                                                                                                                                                                    LOT 50




                                                                                                                                                                                                 L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    JT Engineering, PC




                                                                                                                                                         8''W




                                                                                                                                                                 >




                                                                                                                                                                                                     >
                                                                                                                                                     >
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    7886 South 2325 East
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  South Weber, Utah 84405




                                                                                                                                                                                                 T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ph 801.866.7702

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            L




                                                                                                                                                                 >




                                                                                                                                                                                                     >
                                                                                                                                                     >
                                                                                                                                                                                                              O                                     S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OF ES I ONAL




                                                                                                                                                                 >
                                                                                                                                                     >
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PR
         >       >    >    >     >      >       >       >       >    >    >     >      >                                                                                  T     L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   L I CENS ED
                                                                                                                                    PARCEL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            No. 4940495-2202




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    G I NEER
                                                                                                                                                         8''W




                                                                                                                                                                 >
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               JASON H.




                                                                                                                                      C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             THOMPSON
                                            T       L




                                                                                                                        IRENE WAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AT E       AH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      OF UT




                                                                                                                SEE SHEETPP3




                                                                                                                                                                 >




                                                                                                                                                                       PARCEL
                                                                                                                                                                         E
             LOT 56   LOT 55   LOT 54       LOT 53          LOT 52   LOT 51   LOT 50                                                         8''W


PARCEL
  D




                                                                                                L
                                                                                                T
                                                                                                       PARCEL
                                                                                                         E

                                                                                       RITA PLACE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ADDRESS CITY COMMENTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                              REVISIONS
                                                                                           SEE THIS SHEET




                                                                                                                                                                                                                               DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 12/16/22 JHT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            #  BY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1
                                RITA PLACE                                                                                                                       RITA PLACE
                               STA. 9+80.00 TO 12+10.00                                                                                                         STA. 9+80.00 TO 11+20.00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0 TO 12 10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     THE MONROE TOWNHOMES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   600 EAST 3900 SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SHEET SIZE: ARCH D

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      H. SCALE: 1" = 20'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        V. SCALE: 1" = 5'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DATE: SEPT. 30, 2022

                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ã COPYRIGHT 2022



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SHEET NO.


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       29 of 41
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ENGINEERING
LO
 T1
   8




                              >




                                                        LO
           LO




                                                          T2
                                         >
             T1
                                                                                    W
                                                                                 4''




                                                                  2
               9




                                             >
                   LO
                     T2
                       0
                                                                                                                                                         JT Engineering, PC
                                                                                                                                                         7886 South 2325 East




                                                                                                                                  PA C
                                                                                                                                                       South Weber, Utah 84405




                           LO




                                                                                                                                    RC
                                                                                                                                                           ph 801.866.7702




                             T2
                                                                                                                                                                                 L




                                                                                                                                       EL
                               1
                                                                                                                                                   O




                                                         4' ' W




                                                                                             LO
                                                                                                                                                                                         S
                                                                                                                                                                                    OF ES I ONAL




                                                                                              T3
                                                                                                                                                                                  PR




                                                                                                  3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EN
                                                                                                                                                        L I CENS ED
                                                                                                                                                                                 No. 4940495-2202




                                                                                                                                                                                                                              G I NEER
                                                                                                                                                                                    JASON H.




                                                                                                      LO
                                                                                                                                                                                  THOMPSON




                                                                                                         T
                                                                                                        34
                                                                                                                                                                                 ST
                                                                                                                                                                                      AT E       AH
                                                                                                                                                                                           OF UT




                                                                                                             LO
                                                                                                               T3
                                                             LO
                                                               T3




                                                                                                               5
                                     W
                                  4''




                                                                      2
     39




                                                                                                                    LO
      00
                                                                                                                                               W
                                                                                                                                            8''




                                                                          LO




                                                                                                                     T3
                                                                             T




                                                                                                                       6
                                                                            31
          O
           T




                                                                                                                           LO
                                                 4''




                                                                                 LO
                                                    W




                                                                                                                              T
                                                                                    T




                                                                                                                             37
                                                                                        30




                                                                                                                                                                                      ADDRESS CITY COMMENTS
                                                                                                                                                   REVISIONS
                                                                                                                                                                    DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                      12/16/22 JHT
                                                                                                                                                                    BY
                                                                                                                                                                    DATE
                                                                             36'' STORM DRAIN




                                                                                                                                                                 #
                                                                                                                                                                 1
                                                                                  STA. 9+80.00 TO 13+25.00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                              T 9 80 TO 13 25
                                                                                                                                                          THE MONROE TOWNHOMES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             600 EAST 3900 SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                             TO
                                                                                                                                                                             36
                                                                                                                                                               SHEET SIZE: ARCH D

                                                                                                                                                                           H. SCALE: 1" = 20'

                                                                                                                                                                             V. SCALE: 1" = 5'

                                                                                                                                                           DATE: SEPT. 30, 2022

                                                                                                                                                                ã COPYRIGHT 2022



                                                                                                                                                                     SHEET NO.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                   8
                                                                                                                                                                            30 of 41
                                                                                                                                                                                                 ENGINEERING
                                                               SEE SHEETPP2                     SEE SHEETPP7
                                                              HEPBURN WAY                       RITA PLACE




                                                                          >




                                                                                                           >
                                                               >




                                                                          >
                                                               >
                                                                               RITA PLACE




                                                                   8''W




                                                                          >
                                                                                                                      JT Engineering, PC
                                                                                                                      7886 South 2325 East
                                                                                                                    South Weber, Utah 84405




        IRENE WAY
                                                                                                                        ph 801.866.7702




                                                                          >
                                                                                                               PRELIMINARY




SEE SHEETPP3
                                                IRENE WAY                                                      FOR REVIEW                             S
                                                                                                                                                 OF ES I ONAL
                      8''W              8''W           8''W                                                                                    PR




                                                                                                                                                                                            EN
                                                                                                                     L I CENS ED
                                                                                                                                              No. 4940495-2202




                                                                                                                                                                                              G I NEER
                                                                                                                                                 JASON H.
                                                                                                                                               THOMPSON
                                                                                                                                              ST
                                                                                                                                                   AT E       AH
                                                                                                                                                        OF UT




                    CENTER SQUARE SUBDIVISION                                  CENTER SQUARE SUBDIVISION




                                                                                                                                                   ADDRESS CITY COMMENTS
                             LOT 1                                                      LOT 2




                                                                                                                REVISIONS
                                                                                                                                 DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                   12/16/22 JHT
                                                                                                                                 BY
                                                                                                                                 DATE
                                                 36'' STORM DRAIN




                                                                                                                              #
                                                                                                                              1
                                                   STA. 12+50.00 TO 16+10.00




                                                                                                                                          36'' STORM DRAIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                           STA 12+50 TO 16+10
                                                                                                                       THE MONROE TOWNHOMES




                                                                                                                                                                                                             600 EAST 3900 SOUTH
                                                                                                                            SHEET SIZE: ARCH D

                                                                                                                                        H. SCALE: 1" = 20'

                                                                                                                                          V. SCALE: 1" = 5'

                                                                                                                        DATE: SEPT. 30, 2022

                                                                                                                             ã COPYRIGHT 2022



                                                                                                                                  SHEET NO.

                                                                                                                                          PP9
                                                                                                                                              31of 41
                                                                                                                                                                                              ENGINEERING
                                                                                             >
                                                        >




                                                                                                       >
                                                             >




                                                                             8''
                   W
                4''




                                                                                 W




                                                                                                             >
                                                                         >
                                                                                                                               JT Engineering, PC




                                                                                                                 >
                                                                                                                               7886 South 2325 East




                                                                                     >
                                                                                                                             South Weber, Utah 84405
                                                                                                                                 ph 801.866.7702




                                                                                                                     >
                                                                                                                                                       L




                                                                                         >
   W
4''




                                                                                                     8''
                                                                                                         W
                                                                                                                         O                                     S
                                                                                                                                                          OF ES I ONAL
                                                                                                                                                        PR




                                                                                                                                                                                         EN
                                                                                                                              L I CENS ED
                                                                                                                                                       No. 4940495-2202




                                                                                                                                                                                           G I NEER
                                                                                                                                                          JASON H.




                                PA
                                                                                                                                                        THOMPSON




                                RC
                                                                                                                                                       ST




                                  C
                                   EL
                                                                                                                                                            AT E       AH
                                                                                                                                                                 OF UT




       LO
                                                                                                 W
                                                                                             8''




         T3 3
           3
                LO
                T3 T
                  4
                  O
                                                                     W
                                                                 8''




                       LO
                         T3
                         5
                                                BOUNDARY OF UTELITE FILL. DO




                                                                                                                                                            ADDRESS CITY COMMENTS
                                                NOT PLACE UNDER SIDEWALK.
                                                LIMITS SHOWN ARE 3' FROM EDGE




                                                                                                                         REVISIONS
                                                OF SIDEWALK.




                                                                                                                                          DESCRIPTION
                              PARCEL C DETENTION BASIN




                                                                                                                                                            12/16/22 JHT
                                                                                                                                          BY
                                        STA. 12+50.00 TO 14+90.00




                                                                                                                                       #  DATE
                                                                                                                                       1



                                                                                                                                                                                             SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH
                                                                                                                                                   TO
                                                                                                                                THE MONROE TOWNHOMES


                                                                                                                                                                                    5 TO 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                          600 EAST 3900 SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                   T
                                                                                                                                                                                    T
                                                                                                                                                   L
                                                                                                                                     SHEET SIZE: ARCH D

                                                                                                                                                 H. SCALE: 1" = 20'

                                                                                                                                                   V. SCALE: 1" = 5'

                                                                                                                                 DATE: SEPT. 30, 2022

                                                                                                                                      ã COPYRIGHT 2022



                                                                                                                                           SHEET NO.


                                                                                                                                                  32 of 41
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ENGINEERING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LEGEND



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4590
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  JT Engineering, PC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4586
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  7886 South 2325 East
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                South Weber, Utah 84405
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ph 801.866.7702

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PRELIMINARY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           FOR REVIEW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                    >        >        >           >           >            >            >            >            >
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OF ES I ONAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      RITA PLACE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 L I CENS ED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          No. 4940495-2202




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         G I NEER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             JASON H.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           THOMPSON
                                                                                                                                                                             PARCEL                     56       55           54                                                                                                                                                                          ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               AT E       AH
                                                                                                                                                                               D                                                              53           52               51           50                                                                                                                         OF UT


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PARCEL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               KEY NOTES

                                                                                                                                                                                       >            >        >                >           >            >            >            >            >            >        >


                                                                                                                                                                                                        HEPBURN WAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          >           >            >            >            >            >            >




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ADDRESS CITY COMMENTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            REVISIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 36''




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                             49       48           47           46            45               44




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SD
                                                                                                             >




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    36''




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               12/16/22 JHT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BY
                                                                                                                                                                         >         >
                                                                                                                              >       >            >

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PARCEL
                                                                                                                                      SAVVY COVE



                                                                                                             >




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 C




                                                                                                             >
                                                                                                                             38       39               40           41        42               43




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          36''




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EROSION CONTROL PLAN
                                                                                                        WA Y
                                                                                                     RN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           IRENE WAY
                                                                                                                     U




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH
                                                                                                             H E P B



                     15       14       13       12          11       10          9                                                    27           26           25            24               23        22                                        33           34           35                   36           37




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   THE MONROE TOWNHOMES
                                                                                     PARCEL
                                                                                       A
                                                                                                     >




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      600 EAST 3900 SOUTH
                              DOLORES COVE                                                                                                                  BETSEY COVE                                                                            ELEANOR COVE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         >
                                                                                                                         >
                                                                                                     >




                                                                                                                                                                               >
>   >
                                                                                                                                                                                           >        >
           >     >        >   >    >    >   >       >   >        >   >       >   >   >                                                     >   >            >   >




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         >
                                                                                                                         >
                                                                                                     >




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         >
        PARCEL




                                                                                                                         >
                                                                                                     >




                     1        2        3        4           5            6       7       8                                            16           17           18           19                20        21                                        32           31               30               29           28
          B




                                                                                                                         >
                                                                                                                         >




                                                                                             >   >       >        >      >        >




                                                                                                      3900 SOUTH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SHEET SIZE: ARCH D

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    H. SCALE: 1" = 30'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          V. SCALE: N/A

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DATE: SEPT. 30, 2022

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ã COPYRIGHT 2022



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SHEET NO.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EC1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     33 of 41
                                                                                                                                                   ENGINEERING
                                                                                                     JT Engineering, PC
                                                                                                     7886 South 2325 East
                                                                                                   South Weber, Utah 84405
                                                                                                       ph 801.866.7702

                                                                                               FOR REVIEW
PERSPECTIVE VIEW                                                                                                                     S
                                                                                                                                OF ES I ONAL
                                                                                                                              PR




                                                                                                                                               EN
                                                                                                    L I CENS ED
                                                                                                                             No. 4940495-2202




                                                                                                                                                 G I NEER
                                       PLAN VIEW                                                                                JASON H.
                                                                                                                              THOMPSON
                                                                                                                             ST
                                                                                                                                  AT E       AH
                                                                                                                                       OF UT




                   SILT FENCE DETAIL                            INLET PROTECTION




                                                                                               REVISIONS
                                                                                                                DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                BY
                   SECTION VIEW




                                                                                                             #  DATE
                    PLAN VIEW




                                                                                                                             SWPPP NOTES
                                                                                                                                                  SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH
                                                                                                      THE MONROE TOWNHOMES




                                                                                                                                                               600 EAST 3900 SOUTH
                                                            STABILIZED CONSTRUCTION ENTRANCE


             CONCRETE WASHOUT AREA




                                                                                                           SHEET SIZE: ARCH D

                                                                                                                             H. SCALE: N/A

                                                                                                                             V. SCALE: N/A

                                                                                                       DATE: SEPT. 30, 2022

                                                                                                            ã COPYRIGHT 2022
                                          PORTABLE TOILET
                                                                                                                 SHEET NO.

                                                                                                                             EC2
                                                                                                                        34 of 41
                                                                                                                              ENGINEERING
                                                                                JT Engineering, PC
                                                                                7886 South 2325 East
                                                                              South Weber, Utah 84405
                                                                                  ph 801.866.7702

                                                                          FOR REVIEW
                                                                                                                S
                                                                                                           OF ES I ONAL
                                                                                                         PR




                                                                                                                          EN
                                                                               L I CENS ED
                                                                                                        No. 4940495-2202




                                                                                                                            G I NEER
                                                                                                           JASON H.
                                                             OPTION "B"                                  THOMPSON
                                         OPTION "A"
                                                                                                        ST
                                                                                                             AT E       AH
                                                                                                                  OF UT




                                         PAVEMENT SECTION FOR ROADWAYS




    PRIMARY ROAD - CROSS-SECTION




                                                                          REVISIONS
              SCALE: 1" = 4'




                                                                                        #  DESCRIPTION
                                                                                           BY
                                                                                           DATE




                                                                                                        PROJECT DETAILS
                                                                                                                             SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH
PRIMARY ROAD - CROSS-SECTION @ PARKING
              SCALE: 1" = 4'




                                                                                 THE MONROE TOWNHOMES




                                                                                                                                          600 EAST 3900 SOUTH
                                                                                      SHEET SIZE: ARCH D

                                                                                                        H. SCALE: N/A
       26' ROAD CROSS-SECTION                                                                           H. SCALE: N/A
               SCALE: 1" = 4'
                                                                                  DATE: SEPT. 30, 2022

                                                                                       ã COPYRIGHT 2022



                                                                                            SHEET NO.

                                                                                                        DT1
                                                                                                   35 of 41
                                                        ENGINEERING
      JT Engineering, PC
      7886 South 2325 East
    South Weber, Utah 84405
        ph 801.866.7702

FOR REVIEW
                                      S
                                 OF ES I ONAL
                               PR




                                                     EN
     L I CENS ED
                              No. 4940495-2202




                                                       G I NEER
                                 JASON H.
                               THOMPSON
                              ST
                                   AT E       AH
                                        OF UT




REVISIONS
              #  DESCRIPTION
                 BY
                 DATE



                               JVWCD WATER DETAILS
                                                       SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH
       THE MONROE TOWNHOMES




                                                                    600 EAST 3900 SOUTH
            SHEET SIZE: ARCH D

                              H. SCALE: N/A

                              H. SCALE: N/A

        DATE: SEPT. 30, 2022

             ã COPYRIGHT 2022



                  SHEET NO.

                              DT2
                         36 of 41
                                                       ENGINEERING
      JT Engineering, PC
      7886 South 2325 East
    South Weber, Utah 84405
        ph 801.866.7702

FOR REVIEW
                                      S
                                 OF ES I ONAL
                               PR




                                                    EN
     L I CENS ED
                              No. 4940495-2202




                                                      G I NEER
                                 JASON H.
                               THOMPSON
                              ST
                                   AT E       AH
                                        OF UT




REVISIONS
              #  DESCRIPTION
                 BY
                 DATE



                               MOID SEWER DETAILS
                                                      SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH
       THE MONROE TOWNHOMES




                                                                   600 EAST 3900 SOUTH
            SHEET SIZE: ARCH D

                              H. SCALE: N/A

                              H. SCALE: N/A

        DATE: SEPT. 30, 2022

             ã COPYRIGHT 2022



                  SHEET NO.

                              DT3
                         37 of 41
                                                     ENGINEERING
      JT Engineering, PC
      7886 South 2325 East
    South Weber, Utah 84405
        ph 801.866.7702

FOR REVIEW
                                      S
                                 OF ES I ONAL
                               PR




                                                  EN
     L I CENS ED
                              No. 4940495-2202




                                                    G I NEER
                                 JASON H.
                               THOMPSON
                              ST
                                   AT E       AH
                                        OF UT




REVISIONS
              #  DESCRIPTION
                 BY
                 DATE




                              STORMTECH DETAILS
                                                    SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH
       THE MONROE TOWNHOMES




                                                                 600 EAST 3900 SOUTH
            SHEET SIZE: ARCH D

                              H. SCALE: N/A

                              H. SCALE: N/A

        DATE: SEPT. 30, 2022

             ã COPYRIGHT 2022



                  SHEET NO.

                              DT4
                         38 of 41
                                                     ENGINEERING
      JT Engineering, PC
      7886 South 2325 East
    South Weber, Utah 84405
        ph 801.866.7702

FOR REVIEW
                                      S
                                 OF ES I ONAL
                               PR




                                                  EN
     L I CENS ED
                              No. 4940495-2202




                                                    G I NEER
                                 JASON H.
                               THOMPSON
                              ST
                                   AT E       AH
                                        OF UT




REVISIONS
              #  DESCRIPTION
                 BY
                 DATE




                              STORMTECH DETAILS
                                                    SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH
       THE MONROE TOWNHOMES




                                                                 600 EAST 3900 SOUTH
            SHEET SIZE: ARCH D

                              H. SCALE: N/A

                              H. SCALE: N/A

        DATE: SEPT. 30, 2022

             ã COPYRIGHT 2022



                  SHEET NO.

                              DT5
                         39 of 41
                                                     ENGINEERING
      JT Engineering, PC
      7886 South 2325 East
    South Weber, Utah 84405
        ph 801.866.7702

FOR REVIEW
                                      S
                                 OF ES I ONAL
                               PR




                                                  EN
     L I CENS ED
                              No. 4940495-2202




                                                    G I NEER
                                 JASON H.
                               THOMPSON
                              ST
                                   AT E       AH
                                        OF UT




REVISIONS
              #  DESCRIPTION
                 BY
                 DATE




                              STORMTECH DETAILS
                                                    SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH
       THE MONROE TOWNHOMES




                                                                 600 EAST 3900 SOUTH
            SHEET SIZE: ARCH D

                              H. SCALE: N/A

                              H. SCALE: N/A

        DATE: SEPT. 30, 2022

             ã COPYRIGHT 2022



                  SHEET NO.

                              DT6
                         40 of 41
                                                     ENGINEERING
      JT Engineering, PC
      7886 South 2325 East
    South Weber, Utah 84405
        ph 801.866.7702

FOR REVIEW
                                      S
                                 OF ES I ONAL
                               PR




                                                  EN
     L I CENS ED
                              No. 4940495-2202




                                                    G I NEER
                                 JASON H.
                               THOMPSON
                              ST
                                   AT E       AH
                                        OF UT




REVISIONS
              #  DESCRIPTION
                 BY
                 DATE




                              STORMTECH DETAILS
                                                    SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH
       THE MONROE TOWNHOMES




                                                                 600 EAST 3900 SOUTH
            SHEET SIZE: ARCH D

                              H. SCALE: N/A

                              H. SCALE: N/A

        DATE: SEPT. 30, 2022

             ã COPYRIGHT 2022



                  SHEET NO.

                              DT7
                              41of 41
                                     ORDINANCE NO. 2023‐



        AN ORDINANCE OF THE SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL TO AMEND THE
        SOUTH SALT LAKE ZONING MAP FOR PROPERTY LOCATED AT 547-617 EAST 3900
        SOUTH, CURRENTLY A MIXED USE ZONE, TO INCLUDE A TOWNHOME OVERLAY
        (TO).


WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of South Salt Lake (the “City Council”) is authorized by law to
enact ordinances establishing zoning districts and other regulations for land use; and
WHEREAS, on May 26, 2021, the City Council adopted a new zoning district, the Townhome Overlay
(TO) Zone, to encourage townhome development with narrowly tailored requirements to enhance the
housing diversity within the City.
WHEREAS, on May 18, 2023, the South Salt Lake Planning Commission (the “Planning Commission”)
held a legally noticed public hearing to consider amending the South Salt Lake City Zoning Map for the
subject property, to add the Townhome Overlay (TO) Zoning District to the property as shown in Exhibit
A; and
WHEREAS, the Planning Commission found that the proposed zoning amendment is consistent with the
goals and objectives of the South Salt Lake General Plan, and forwarded a recommendation to the City
Council to approve the amendment; and
WHEREAS, as required by South Salt Lake Municipal Code 17.03.270 and in accordance Utah Code §§
10-9a-102 and 10-9a-532, the City Council approved and authorized the execution of a Development
Agreement with CW THE MONROE, LLC for the townhome development located at 547-617 EAST 3900
SOUTH; and
WHEREAS, the City Council finds the zoning amendment for the attached property is consistent with the
City’s General Plan and will facilitate a new townhome development in this area.

NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the City Council of the City of South Salt Lake that:

SECTION I. The South Salt Lake City Zoning Map for the properties located at 547-617 EAST 3900
SOUTH is amended to include a Townhome Overlay (TO) District applied over the existing zone, as
specifically shown in Exhibit A.

SECTION II. Effective Date. This ordinance shall become effective upon the Mayor’s signature and
publication, or after fifteen days of transmission to the office of the Mayor if neither approved nor
disapproved by the Mayor, and thereafter, publication.


(signatures appear on next page)
 DATED this           day of __________ 2023.
                                                BY THE CITY COUNCIL:


                                                Sharla Bynum, Council Chair
 ATTEST:




 Ariel Andrus, City Recorder


City Council Vote as Recorded:
         Bynum
           Huff
           Mila
           Pinkney
           Siwik
           Thomas
           Williams




 Transmitted to the Mayor’s office on this       day of                       2023.


         Ariel Andrus, City Recorder


 MAYOR’S ACTION:


           Dated this            day of                          , 2023.




                                                  Cherie Wood, Mayor
 ATTEST:



 Ariel Andrus, City Recorder
                                      EXHIBIT A

The area outlined in a dotted black line, located at 547-617 EAST 3900 SOUTH, and currently zoned as
Mixed Use will be amended to include the Townhome Overlay (TO) on the South Salt Lake Zoning Map
as shown below:

Existing Zoning Map:




Amended Zoning Map:
                                   ORDINANCE NO. 2023-_____
AN ORDINANCE OF THE SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL AMENDING SECTION 3.11.110 OF THE
SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY MUNICIPAL CODE TO MODIFY FEES RELATING TO PARKS AND
COMMUNITY CENTERS IN SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY AND TO UPDATE NAMES OF CERTAIN CITY
OWNED FACILITIES.
       WHEREAS, The South Salt Lake City Council (the “City Council”) is authorized to enact
and amend ordinances establishing regulations related to the health, safety, and welfare of the
residents of the City of South Salt Lake (the “City”); and
        WHEREAS, the City Council finds that, after a review of the consolidated fee schedule
while updating other sections subsequent to a study conducted by Zion’s Public Finance, and
following a market comparable study conducted by City staff, the City’s consolidated fee
schedule, codified in South Salt Lake Municipal Code 3.11.110, should be updated to reflect the
current economic status of the City’s services and costs in maintenance and administration of
its parks and community centers; and
        WHEREAS, due to recent action by the City Council in renaming the Columbus
Community Center to the South Salt Lake Community Center, the addition and removal of
certain rentable spaces, and due to the expiration and obsolescence of names associated with
certain facilities such as pavilions in the City’s parks, the consolidated fee schedule needs to be
updated to accurately reflect the current names of those facilities; and
        WHEREAS, the City Council hereby determines that amending section 3.11.110 of the
South Salt Lake Municipal Code to modify parks and community center fees and the names of
certain city owned facilities as shown in “Exhibit A,” which is attached hereto and incorporated
by this reference, is in the best interest of the health, safety, and welfare of the residents of
South Salt Lake City.
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the City Council of the City of South Salt Lake as
follows:
SECTION 1. Enactment. Section 3.11.110 is hereby amended, as attached hereto and
incorporated by reference in “Exhibit A.”
SECTION 2. Severability. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of
this ordinance is, for any reason, held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such provision shall be deemed a separate, distinct, and independent provision,
and such holding shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this ordinance.
SECTION 3. Conflict with Existing Ordinances, Resolutions, or Policies. To the extent that any
ordinances, resolutions, or policies of the City of South Salt Lake conflict with the provisions of
this ordinance, this ordinance shall prevail.
SECTION 4. Effective Date. This ordinance shall become effective upon Mayor’s signature
and publication, or after fifteen days of transmission to the office of the Mayor if neither
approved nor disapproved by the Mayor, and thereafter, publication.
                              (signatures appear on separate page)
DATED this ______ day of __________, 2023.
                                         BY THE CITY COUNCIL:
                                         ____________________________________
                                         Sharla Bynum, Council Chair
ATTEST:
____________________________________
Ariel Andrus, City Recorder


City Council Vote as Recorded:
       Huff          ______
       Thomas        ______
       Bynum         ______
       Mila          ______
       Siwik         ______
       Pinkney       ______
       Williams      ______


Transmitted to the Mayor’s office on this _____ day of ________________________ 2023.


       ______________________________
       Ariel Andrus, City Recorder



MAYOR’S ACTION: ________________________


       Dated this _________ day of __________________________________, 2023.


                                         ____________________________________
                                         Cherie Wood, Mayor
ATTEST:
____________________________________
Ariel Andrus, City Recorder
Exhibit A:

3.11.110 Parks and Community Centers.
Individuals and Entities renting a City facility, or a portion of a City facility, are subject to the terms, conditions,
and fees detailed below and any other terms and conditions stated in City facility rental applications/contracts
and all other laws and City policies related to City Parks and Community Centers.
      A.    Resident Rate. The "resident" rate applies only in cases in which: (1) a person residing in the City of
            South Salt Lake schedules a facility for a private, personal, or family event; or (2) a business located in
            South Salt Lake schedules a facility for an employee social event. A person residing in the City or a
            business licensed in the City may not schedule scheduling a facility for an entity/organization/institute
            event or function or for a business enterprise at the "resident" shall pay the “standard” rate.
      B.    Non-profit Rate. The "non-profit" rate applies only in cases where a non-profit entity schedules a
            facility for purposes that do not include fundraising or revenue generation for the entity. Any non-
            profit entity that schedules a facility for purposes that include fundraising shall pay the "commercial
            standard" rate fee. A non-profit entity that collects Collecting a participation fee from those attending
            an event for the purpose of covering the cost of the event shall not be considered fundraising. Proof of
            non-profit 501(c)(3) status must be provided, such as a certificate issued by the state or the United
            States. Government agencies may receive the "non-profit" rate, upon request.
      C.    Deposits. Deposits must be paid at the time of booking and may be refunded subject to a post-event
            inspection. The City may retain all or part of a deposit when the event causes damage to property,
            additional costs for clean up or room property restoration, or if the event is cancelled less than
            fourteen (14) calendar days prior to the scheduled date. The City reserves the right to recover its costs
            if In cases in which the deposit does not cover damage, additional labor, or other costs resulting from
            the event the entity renting the facility shall reimburse the City for all of the City’s costs related to
            the repair and restoration of the damaged facility. If the event occupies the facility beyond the
            scheduled time, the deposit will be used to pay for additional time, in one-hour increments.
      D.    Insurance. All parties are required to demonstrate to the City adequate insurance coverage.
      E.    Security Service Fee. For large or high-risk events, or for large group rentals during evening hours
            after 5pm and weekends, the City may require the requesting entity to provide appropriate security
            security shall be required. The City shall evaluate event-related risks and require City provided
            security services at the costs detailed in this Title. A security plan may be required by the police
            department and is subject to approval by the police department.
      F.    After Hours Fee. Any person or organization that receives approval to use facilities under this Section
            after normal hours of operation shall pay an additional, non-refundable fee of two hundred dollars
            ($200.00) per hour for use of the facility as outlined in this Title. An offer by an organization or person
            to pay this additional fee does not obligate the City to schedule after hours events.
      G.    Limited Waiver. With the approval of the City Attorney, rental fees under this Section may be waived
            where the requested and scheduled use of facilities supports a free expression event, and where: (1)
            the meeting is open to all members of the community; (2) no fee or admission charge is required to
            attend; and (3) no donation are accepted or expected. Cancellation Fee: Events that are cancelled less
            than 14 days prior to rental date are subject to cancellation charge equal to booking deposit paid.
            Bookings not paid in full 14 days prior to rental date are subject to cancellation and cancellation
            charge.
      H.    City Departments. City departments shall not be charged a rental fee for use of any parks or facilities.
            However, City departments must comply with facility scheduling and use requirements. City
            departments shall also be responsible for costs associated with damage or excessive maintenance
            relating to the department's use. Late Booking Fee Addition (1): Rentals must be confirmed and paid
            for a minimum of 14 days in advance. For rentals booked 7 to 13 days in advance, an additional 25%
         of room rental fee will be charged. For rentals booked 3 to 6 days in advance, an additional 50% of
         room rental fee will be charged. No bookings allowed less than 36 hours in advance.
   I.    Limited Multi Booking Fee Reductions. A forty-percent reduction in rental fees for a community center
         facility is authorized where the scheduling party pays in advance a non-refundable payment for
         scheduled time of ten or more hours in any one calendar month. A twenty-percent reduction in rental
         fees for a community center facility is authorized where the scheduling party pays in advance a non-
         refundable payment for scheduled time of five to nine schedules ten hours or more in any one
         calendar month. In such cases, the required fee must be paid in advance and will be non-refundable.
   J.    Conferences or Large Events Multi Room/Facility Fee Reduction. For a conference or large event,
         where an organization A twenty percent reduction in cumulative rental fees may be granted for a
         renter that intends to use a group of rooms and/or facilities simultaneously for a large event at any of
         the City's community centers and parks, the overall rate for such multi-room/facility use shall be
         reduced by forty (40) percent of the cumulative rental rate of the several rooms and facilities. In such
         cases, the required fee must be paid in advance and will be non-refundable.
   K.    Community Parks.
Fitts Park Facilities (per day)                                      Resident              All others
 Lions Pride Pavilion                                                $30.00                $60.00
 Wandamere Pavilion                                                  $25.00                $50.00
 Xango Pavilion                                                      $20.00                $40.00
 Swire Pavilion                                                      $25.00                $50.00
Fitts Park Pavilions (per day)                                 Standard      Non-Profit     Resident       Deposit

 Lions Pride Pavilion                                            $125.00        $100.00        $75.00       $200.00

 Spring Creek Pavilion *                                          $75.00         $60.00        $50.00       $100.00

 Wandamere Pavilion                                               $75.00         $50.00        $40.00       $100.00

 Mill Creek Pavilion **                                           $75.00         $50.00        $40.00       $100.00

   * formerly known as Swire Pavilion
   ** formerly known as Xango Pavilion

   L.    Community Centers.
Columbus Community Center             Hourly Rate                            Deposit
Auditorium
 Commercial                           $140.00                                $200.00
 Non-profit                           $100.00                                $200.00
 Resident                             $80.00                                 $200.00
 Kitchen (available for rent with     $80.00/reservation
auditorium only)
Patio
 Commercial                           $90.00                                 $200.00
 Non-profit                           $65.00                                 $200.00
 Resident                             $25.00                                 $200.00
Gymnasium for sports
 Commercial                           $100.00                                $200.00
 Non-profit                           $25.00                                 $200.00
 Resident                             $25.00                                 $200.00
 Tables and chairs for events in   $40.00/reservation
gym
Gymnasium for events
 Commercial rate                   $160.00              $200.00
 Non-profit rate                   $140.00              $200.00
 Resident                          $100.00              $200.00
Meeting rooms 101,104,105
 Commercial rate                   $50.00               $200.00
 Non-profit rate                   $35.00               $200.00
 Resident rate                     $25.00               $200.00
Meeting rooms 106, 102/103
 Commercial rate                   $75.00               $200.00
 Non-profit rate                   $50.00               $200.00
 Resident rate                     $40.00               $200.00
Meeting accessories and
equipment (per day)
 TV/VCR/DVD equipment              $25.00
 Microphone and speaker            $35.00
 Dry erase board                   $15.00
 Projector                         $25.00
 Piano                             $20.00
 All linen for tables              $10.00/linen
 Napkins                           $0.50 each
Central Park Community Center      Hourly Rate          Deposit
(PAL)
Gymnasium for Sports
Commercial                         $100.00              $200.00
Non-profit                         $25.00               $200.00
Resident                           $25.00               $200.00
Gymnasium for events
Commercial                         $160.00              $200.00
Non-profit                         $140.00              $200.00
Resident                           $100.00              $200.00
Athletic field
Commercial                         $60.00               $200.00
Non-profit                         $40.00               $200.00
Resident                           $30.00               $200.00
Historic Scott School              Hourly rate          Deposit
Great Hall
 Commercial                        $50.00               $200.00
 Non-profit                        $35.00               $100.00
 Resident                          $25.00               $100.00
Cottage
 Commercial                        $50.00               $200.00
 Non-profit                        $35.00               $100.00
 Resident                          $25.00               $100.00
Board room
 Commercial                        $25.00               $200.00
 Non-profit                        $15.00               $100.00
 Resident                             $15.00                    $100.00
Studio
 Commercial                           $25.00                    $200.00
 Non-profit                           $15.00                    $100.00
 Resident                             $15.00                    $100.00
Patio and lawn
 Commercial                           $75.00                    $200.00
 Non-profit                           $50.00                    $100.00
 Resident                             $35.00                    $100.00

South Salt Lake Community
Center                                           Hourly Rate              Deposit   Setup Fee

                             Standard          Non-Profit      Resident

Patio                        $100.00           $75.00          $50.00     $100.00   $50.00

Green Space                  $75.00            $50.00          $25.00     $100.00   N/A

Auditorium                   $150.00           $100.00         $75.00     $500.00   $50.00

Gymnasium                    $100.00           $50.00          $35.00     $500.00   $25.00

Meeting Rooms 101,110        $50.00            $35.00          $25.00     $200.00   $10.00

Class Rooms 111, 112         $75.00            $35.00          $25.00     $100.00   $10.00

Conference Rooms 113,        $20.00            $15.00          $5.00      $100.00   N/A
114

Conference Rooms 115,        $30.00            $20.00          $10.00     $100.00   N/A
116

Co-Op Community Lounge       $75.00            $50.00          $25.00     $200.00   $25.00
(non-exclusive use)

Co-Op Center                 $500.00           $400.00         $400.00    $500.00   $50.00
(all rooms, exclusive use)

Audiovisual equipment        Daily Rate                                   Deposit

Flat Screen TV Monitor       $25.00                                       $200.00
(mobile)

Projector                    $25.00                                       $200.00

Laptop                       $25.00                                       $200.00

Microphone & Speaker         $25.00                                       $200.00

Podcast Equipment            $50.00                                       $200.00

Central Park Community
Center                                           Hourly Rate              Deposit   Setup Fee

                             Standard          Non-Profit      Resident
Gymnasium                      $100.00                  $50.00              $25.00                $200.00   $25.00



Athletic field or court        $100.00                  $75.00              $50.00                $200.00   N/A

Historic Scott School                                     Hourly rate                             Deposit

                               Standard                 Non-Profit          Resident

Patio and Lawn                 $50.00                   $35.00              $25.00                $200.00   N/A

Glenn Beeley Room              $50.00                   $35.00              $25.00                $200.00   $10.00

Art Studio                     $50.00                   $35.00              $25.00                $200.00   N/A

All Buildings:
1.       Security Service Fee - $50.00 / hr per staff
2.       After Hours Fee - $200.00 per hour for use of the facility, in addition to rental fee.
3.       Set Up Fee: Includes setup and take down of tables and chairs. Renters may set up own
         furnishings at no cost.
