                            City of South Salt Lake Redevelopment Agency
                                                AGENDA

Public notice is hereby given that the City of South Salt Lake Redevelopment Agency will hold a
meeting on Wednesday, March 27, 2024, in the City Council Chambers, 220 East Morris Avenue, Suite
200, commencing at 6:45 p.m., or as soon thereafter as possible.

To watch the meeting live click the link below to join:
https://zoom.us/j/93438486912

Watch recorded City Council meetings at: youtube.com/@SouthSaltLakeCity

Conducting: LeAnne Huff, RDA Chair

Opening Ceremonies
         1. Roll Call

No Action Comments
         1. Bills, Claims, and Communications
         2. Report of the Executive Director

Approval of Minutes
         March 13th, RDA Meeting

Unfinished Business

     1. A Resolution of the Redevelopment Agency                   Jonathan Weidenhamer
        of South Salt Lake Authorizing the Executive Director
        to Execute a Purchase and Sale Agreement for Property
        Located at 2280 South State Street

     2. A Resolution of the Redevelopment Agency                   Jonathan Weidenhamer
        of South Salt Lake Authorizing the Executive
        Director to Enter Into a Participation Agreement
        with Blaser Ventures

     3. A Resolution of the Redevelopment Agency                   Jonathan Weidenhamer
        of South Salt Lake Amending the Budget for
        Fiscal Year July 1, 2023, Through June 30, 2024

     4. A Resolution of the Redevelopment Agency                   Jonathan Weidenhamer
        of South Salt Lake Adopting an Official Plan
        for the Central 15 CRA

     5. A Resolution of the Redevelopment Agency                   Jonathan Weidenhamer
        of South Salt Lake Adopting the Project Area
        Budget for the Central 15 CRA

     6. A Resolution of the Redevelopment Agency                   Jonathan Weidenhamer
        of South Salt Lake Authorizing the Execution of an
        Interlocal Cooperation Agreement with the City of
           South Salt Lake Regarding Tax Increment Funding in
           the Central 15 CRA Project Area

       7. A Resolution of the Redevelopment Agency                      Jonathan Weidenhamer
          of South Salt Lake Authorizing the Execution
          of an Interlocal Cooperation Agreement with
          the City of South Salt Lake Regarding a Loan for
          Property Acquisition

Motion for Closed Meeting

Adjourn


Posted March 22, 2024


Those needing auxiliary communicative aids or other services for this meeting should contact Ariel
Andrus at 801-483-6019, giving at least 24 hours’ notice.

In accordance with State Statute and RDA Board policy, one or more Board Members may be
participating electronically.

Have a question or concern? Call the connect line 801-464-6757 or email connect@sslc.gov
                               RESOLUTION NO. R2024-_____

          A RESOLUTION OF THE REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY OF SOUTH SALT
            LAKE AUTHORIZING THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR TO EXECUTE A
           PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT FOR PROPERTY LOCATED AT
                           2280 SOUTH STATE STREET.

        WHEREAS, the Redevelopment Agency of South Salt Lake (the “Agency”) was created
by the South Salt Lake City Council (the “Council”) to transact the business and exercise all the
powers provided for by Title 17C of the Utah Code, “Limited Purpose Local Government
Entities—Community Reinvestment Agency Act” (the “RDA Act”); and

       WHEREAS, Utah Code 17C-1-202(1)(c) authorizes the Agency to buy, obtain an option
upon, acquire by gift, or otherwise acquire any interest in real or personal property; and

        WHEREAS, the Agency intends to purchase the property located at approximately 2280
South State Street in the City of South Salt Lake (the “Property”) in order to spur development
on that property in a manner consistent with its goals of increasing affordable housing while also
improving the character, use, convenience, and aesthetics of the property and the City; and

        WHEREAS, the Agency now desires to enter into a Purchase and Sale agreement in
order to purchase the Property, as more fully described in the Purchase and Sale Agreement
attached as “Exhibit A,” and incorporated herein by this reference;


NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY OF
SOUTH SALT LAKE:

     1.     The Agency authorizes the Executive Director to execute a purchase and sale
            agreement as more fully described in Exhibit A.
     2.     Agency staff are authorized and directed to carry out all administrative aspects of the
            purchase and sale agreement.
     3.     This resolution shall take effect upon the approval of the Agency governing body.

       (signatures appear on next page)


       The effective date of the Agreement shall be the date as indicated in the Agreement.

                               (signatures appear on separate page)


                                               Page 1
APPROVED AND ADOPTED by the South Salt Lake City Council, South Salt Lake, Utah, on
this ____ day of ___________, 2024.

                                             BY THE CITY COUNCIL:


                                             ______________________________
                                             LeAnne Huff
                                             RDA Chair


City Council Vote as Recorded:

       Bynum         _______
       Huff          _______
       Mitchell      _______
       Pinkney       _______
       Sanchez       _______
       Thomas        _______
       Williams      _______

                                             ATTEST:


                                             ______________________________
                                             Ariel Andrus
                                             RDA Secretary
 EXHIBIT A
Purchase and Sale Agreement
                                RESOLUTION NO. R2024-_____

           A RESOLUTION OF THE REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY OF SOUTH SALT
           LAKE AUTHORIZING THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR TO ENTER INTO A
                PARTICIPATION AGREEMENT WITH BLASER VENTURES.

        WHEREAS, the Redevelopment Agency of South Salt Lake (the “Agency”) was created
by the South Salt Lake City Council (the “Council”) to transact the business and exercise all the
powers provided for by Title 17C of the Utah Code, “Limited Purpose Local Government
Entities—Community Reinvestment Agency Act” (the “RDA Act”); and

        WHEREAS, Utah Code 17C-1-102(41) defines a Participation Agreement as a written
agreement between a person and an agency that: a) includes a description of: i) the project area
development that that person will undertake; ii) the amount of project area funds the person may
receive; and iii) the terms and conditions under which the person may receive project area funds;
and b) is approved by resolution of the board; and

        WHEREAS, Utah Code 17C-1-202(1)(d) authorizes the Agency to use Agency funds to
pay for, including financing or refinancing, all or part of: an incentive or other consideration paid
to a participant under a participation agreement; and

        WHEREAS, the Agency has purchased or is in the process of purchasing the property
located at approximately 2280 South State Street in the City of South Salt Lake (the “Property”)
in order to spur development in a manner consistent with the goals of the Market Station Urban
Renewal Project Area Plan and the Agency’s additional goals of increasing affordable housing
while also improving the character, use, convenience, and aesthetics of the Property and the
City; and

       WHEREAS, the Agency is negotiating the conveyance of the Property to [________]
(the “Developer”), which is the named counterparty to the Participation Agreement.

       WHEREAS, the Agency now desires to enter into a Participation Agreement in
accordance with the RDA Act in substantially the same form as and as further described in
Exhibit A, which is attached to this resolution and incorporate herein by this reference;


NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the Redevelopment Agency of South Salt Lake:

      1.     The Agency approves the Participation Agreement, in substantially the same form as
             the Participation Agreement attached in Exhibit A subject to minor technical
             corrections as needed, subject to the conveyance of the Property to the Developer.
      2.     The Board of the Agency authorizes the Executive Director of the Agency to permit
             any technical corrections to the Participation Agreement and to execute the
             Participation Agreement upon the conveyance of the Property to the Developer.
      3.     This resolution shall take effect immediately upon the approval of the Agency
             governing body.
                              (signatures appear on next page)



DATED this_____day of______________2024.


BY THE REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY:
_____________________________
LeAnne Huff, RDA Chair


RDA Board Vote as Recorded:
Bynum:
Williams:
Huff:
Mitchell:
Pinkney:
Sanchez:
Thomas:




ATTEST:


Ariel Andrus, RDA Secretary
EXHIBIT A
Participation Agreement
                                RESOLUTION NO. R2024-

  A RESOLUTION OF THE REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY OF SOUTH SALT LAKE
AMENDING THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR JULY 1, 2023, THROUGH JUNE 30, 2024

     WHEREAS, the Redevelopment Agency of South Salt Lake (the “Agency”) is a
Community Reinvestment Agency as defined in Utah Code Annotated Section 17C-1-102(4);

      WHEREAS, Utah Code Annotated Section 17C-1-601.5 requires Redevelopment
Agencies to prepare and adopt annual budgets for each fiscal year;

        WHEREAS, the Board of the Redevelopment Agency of South Salt Lake (the “Board”)
met in regular session on June 14, 2023, held a duly noticed public hearing as prescribed by Utah
Code 17C-1-601.5 and adopted a final budget for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2023, and
ending June 30, 2024; and

        WHEREAS, the Agency met on March 13, 2024, and again on March 27, 2024, to
consider an amendment to the Agency budget to purchase property located at 2280 South State
Street in order to redevelop that property; and

       WHEREAS, the Agency has published the necessary notice, held the public hearing
required, and has duly and fully considered the proposed budget and all items therein.

       NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the Redevelopment Agency of the City of
South Salt Lake as follows:

SECTION I: The budget attached hereto, and incorporated herein by this reference, is hereby
adopted for the corporate purposes and objects of the Agency for the fiscal year commencing
July 1, 2022, and ending June 30, 2023, and is hereby adopted as the “Budget of the
Redevelopment Agency of South Salt Lake City, Utah for the Fiscal Year 2022-2023” (the
“Budget”).

SECTION II: Pursuant to Utah Code Ann. 17C-1-601.5(6), a copy of the Budget shall be filed
with the Salt Lake County Auditor, the State Tax Commission, the State Auditor, the State Board
of Education, and each taxing entity from which the agency receives project area funds in
accordance with the law.

SECTION III Severability. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of
this ordinance is, for any reason, held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such provision shall be deemed a separate, distinct, and independent provision, and
such holding shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this ordinance.

SECTION IV. Effective Date. This resolution shall become effective upon signature and
subsequent publication.
DATED this       day of        2024.


BY THE REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY:



LeAnne Huff, RDA Chair


RDA Board Vote as Recorded:
       Bynum:
       Williams:
       Huff:
       Mitchell:
       Pinkney:
       Sanchez:
       Thomas:




ATTEST:



Ariel Andrus, RDA Secretary
Budget of the Redevelopment Agency of the City of South Salt Lake for the Fiscal Year 2023-
                                   2024 as amended
                               RESOLUTION NO. R2024_________

     A RESOLUTION OF THE REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY OF SOUTH SALT LAKE
           ADOPTING AN OFFICIAL PLAN FOR THE CENTRAL 15 CRA.

      WHEREAS, the Redevelopment Agency of South Salt Lake (the "Agency") was created to
transact the business and exercise the powers provided for in the current Limited Purpose Local
Government Entities - Community Reinvestment Agency Act, Title 17C of the Utah Code Ann.
1953, as amended (the "Act"); and

     WHEREAS, the City of South Salt Lake (the “City”) has a planning commission and has
adopted a general plan pursuant to applicable law; and

      WHEREAS, the Agency, by Resolution, has authorized the preparation of a draft project area
plan as provided in the Act; and

       WHEREAS, pursuant to the Act, the Agency has (a) prepared a draft Central 15 CRA Plan
(the “Project Area Plan” or “Plan”) and (b) made the draft Project Area Plan available to the public
at the Agency’s offices during normal business hours; and

     WHEREAS, the Agency provided notice of the public hearing in substantial compliance with
the Act; and

      WHEREAS, on March 27, 2024, the Agency held a public hearing on the draft Project Area
Plan and at that Plan hearing (a) allowed public comment on the draft Project Area Plan and whether
the draft Project Area Plan should be revised, approved or rejected, and (b) received all written and
heard all oral objections to the draft Project Area Plan; and

      WHEREAS, on March 27, 2024, after holding the public hearing, the Agency considered the
oral and written objections to the draft Project Area Plan, and whether to revise, approve or reject the
draft Project Area Plan;

      WHEREAS, less than one year has passed since the date of the public hearing.

NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, by the governing body of the Redevelopment Agency of
South Salt Lake:

       Section l. Adoption of Project Area Plan. It has become necessary and desirable to adopt the
draft Project Area Plan as the official Project Area Plan for the Project Area. The draft Project Area
Plan, in the form attached hereto as Exhibit C and incorporated by this reference, together with any
changes to the draft Project Area Plan as may be indicated in the minutes of this meeting (if any), is
hereby designated and adopted as the official plan for the Project Area. The Agency shall submit
the Project Area Plan, together with a copy of this Resolution, to the City Council requesting that the
Project Area Plan be adopted by ordinance of the legislative body of the City in accordance with the
provisions of the Act. All comments and objections to the draft Project Area Plan (if any) have been
considered and are, unless otherwise provided in the minutes of this meeting (if at all), passed upon.
      Section 2. Legal Description of the Project Area Boundaries. The legal description of the
boundaries of the Project Area covered by the Project Area Plan is attached hereto and incorporated
herein as Exhibit A. A map of the Project Area is attached and incorporated herein as Exhibit B.

      Section 3. Agency’s Purposes and Intent. The Agency’s purposes and intent with respect to
the Project Area are set forth in the Project Area Plan, and include the following:

      A. To encourage and accomplish appropriate private development and community
         reinvestment activities within the Project Area.

      B. To provide for redevelopment infrastructure improvements within or to serve the Project
         Area.

      C. To provide for the strengthening of the tax base and economic health of the community.

       Section 4. Project Area Plan Incorporated by Reference. The Project Area Plan, together with
supporting documents, in the form attached as Exhibit C, together with any changes to the draft
Project Area Plan as may be indicated in the minutes of this meeting (if any), is hereby incorporated
herein by reference, and made a part of this Resolution. Copies of the Project Area Plan shall be
filed and maintained in the office of the Agency and the City Recorder for public inspection.

      Section 5. Agency Board Findings. The Agency Board hereby determines and finds that the
Project Area Plan:

      A. Serves a public purpose by, among other things, encouraging and accomplishing
         appropriate community reinvestment activities within the Project Area;

      B. Produces a public benefit in the form of, among other things, increased development
         activity within the boundaries of the Agency, including in particular within the Project
         Area, that is desirable and will enhance the tax base of all taxing entities within the Project
         Area, as demonstrated by the analysis provided in the Project Area Plan;

      C. Is economically sound and feasible; in that the revenue needed for the implementation of
         the Project Area Plan will come from incremental property taxes generated by new private
         development within the Project Area, all as further shown and supported by the analysis
         contained in the Project Area Plan;

      D. Conforms to the City’s general plan in that, among other things, the Project Area Plan
         provides that all development in the Project Area is to be in accordance with the City’s
         zoning ordinances and requirements, and the development activities contemplated by the
         Project Area Plan are in harmony with the City’s general plan; and

      E. Promotes the public peace, health, safety and welfare of the City.
     Section 6. Effective Date. This Resolution shall take effect immediately upon adoption, and
pursuant to the provisions of the Act, the Project Area Plan shall become effective upon adoption by
Ordinance of the legislative body of the City.

DATED this_____day of______________2024.


BY THE REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY:


_____________________________
LeAnne Huff, RDA Chair


RDA Board Vote as Recorded:
      Bynum:
      Williams:
      Huff:
      Mitchell:
      Pinkney:
      Sanchez:
      Thomas:




ATTEST:



Ariel Andrus, RDA Secretary
          EXHIBIT A – LEGAL DESCRIPTION OF THE PROJECT AREA
The following is the metes and bounds description of the property. This description is provided
to meet the requirements for divided parcels in Utah Code 17C-1-414.
Lots 1 & 2, Parcels A & B Description
A parcel of land being part of Lot 101, Central Valley Water Subdivision recorded July 2, 2009
as Entry No. 10745640 in Book 2009 of Plats, at Page 89 and part of three (3) entire tracts
described in that Special Warranty Deed recorded April 26, 1989 as Entry No. 4763126 and that
Warranty Deed recorded January 2, 1980 as Entry No. 3384130 in Book 5917, at Page 647 in
the Office of the Salt Lake County Recorder. Said parcel of land is located in the Southeast
Quarter of Section 26 and the Southwest Quarter of Section 25, Township 2 South, Range 1
West, Salt Lake Base and Meridian and is described as follows:

Beginning at the intersection of the easterly right-of-way line of 900 West Street and an existing
chain link fence, which is 561.79 feet N. 00°01'40" E. along the monument line of 900 West
Street and 40.00 feet East from a street monument at the intersection of 900 West Street and
3265 South Street, said point also being 2105.17 feet North and 865.66 feet East from the
South Quarter Corner of said Section 26; thence N. 00°01'40" E. (R=N 0°03’14” E) 179.31 feet
along said easterly right-of-way line of 900 West Street to a westerly extension of and existing
chain link fence; thence to and along an existing chain link fence the following fourteen (14)
courses: 1) N. 89°49'04" E. 540.63 feet; 2) N. 83°56'17" E. 20.04 feet; 3) N. 67°30'28" E. 20.02
feet; 4) N. 27°16'55" E. 12.15 feet; 5) S. 88°28'43" E. 9.79 feet; 6) S. 80°51'33" E. 48.66 feet;
7) N. 89°58'09" E. 278.17 feet; 8) S. 84°16'54" E. 14.65 feet; 9) N. 86°51'18" E. 24.61 feet;
10) N. 89°52'17" E. 173.82 feet; 11) S. 36°20'41" E. 9.16 feet; 12) S. 89°38'04" E. 326.05 feet;
13) N. 01°37'14" E. 10.25 feet; 14) N. 89°56'54" E. 371.83 feet; thence N. 88°39’16” E 198.15
feet
to an existing concrete wall; thence N. 89°52'57" E. 465.64 feet along said concrete wall to the
easterly line of said Lot 101, Central Valley Water Subdivision; thence along said Lot 101 the
following fourteen (14) courses: 1) S. 00°09'41" E. (R=S00°07’51”E) 203.19 feet;
2) S. 33°03'04" E. (R=S33°01’14”E) 254.35 feet; 3) S. 49°22'10" E. (R=S49°20’20”E) 77.66
feet;
4) S. 30°22'28" E. (R=S30°20’38”E) 160.35 feet; 5) S. 00°00'53" W. (R=S00°02’43”W) 127.74
feet; 6) S. 84°58'11" W. (R=S85°00’01”W) 62.42 feet; 7) S. 00°47'32" W. (R=S00°49’22”W)
96.51
feet; 8) S. 87°44'24" E. (R=S87°42’34”E) 2.50 feet; 9) S. 02°28'30" W. (R=S02°30’20”W) 10.98
feet; 10) S. 87°35'10" W. (R=S87°37’00”W) 4.96 feet; 11) S. 01°06'39" E. (R=S01°04’49”E)
204.56 feet; 12) S. 89°54'51" E. (R=S89°53’01”E) 341.63 feet; 13) N. 00°07'58" E.
(R=S00°09’48”E) 0.48 feet; 14) S. 89°59'07" E. (R=S89°57’17”E) 38.39 feet to the
northwesterly
corner of a parcel of land described as “Parcel No. 1:C” having Project No. SW 11-0007 in that
Special Warranty Deed recorded April 27, 2011 as Entry No. 11173107 in Book 9920, at Page
6692 in the Office of said Recorder; thence S. 00°07'58" W. (R=N. 00°09’48” E.) 69.52 feet to a
southerly line of said Lot 101, Central Valley Water Subdivision; thence S. 84°55'21" W.
(R=S84°57’11”W) 114.99 feet along said southerly line of Lot 101; thence N. 89°30’56” W.
206.60 feet to said southerly line of said Lot 101; thence along said Lot 101 the following two
(2) courses: 1) N. 86°49’30” W. 57.98 feet; 2) S. 88°16’33” W. 20.92 feet; thence
N. 49°47’26” W. 29.86 feet; thence N. 89°09’40” W. 94.91 feet; thence S. 42°44’52” W. 26.31
feet to said

Southerly line of Lot 101; thence along said southerly line of Lot 101 the following three (3)
courses: 1) N. 87°54'14" W. (R=N87°52’24”W) 242.81 feet; 2) N. 83°35'53" W.
(R=N83°34’03”W)
205.69 feet; 3) S. 86°14'09" W. 307.48 feet (R=S86°15’59”W 308.54); thence along the
southerly boundary line of said entire tract the following seven (7) courses: 1) S. 79°45'00" W.
265.37 feet (R=South 79°48’36” West 262.62 ft); 2) S. 74°48'49" W. (R=North 74°53’13” West
241.2 ft) 241.34 feet; 3) S. 80°32'18" W. 99.97 feet (R=South 80°35’51” West 100 ft);
4) N. 88°59'08" W. 99.58 feet (R=North 88°52’35” West 99.54 ft); 5) S. 82°09'33" W. 195.21
feet
(R=South 83°12’45” West 195 ft); 6) S. 86°41'49" W. (R=South 86°50’27” West 195.77 ft)
195.75 feet; 7) N. 89°38'13" W. (R=S 89°50’ E) 511.16 feet; thence N. 01°58'34" W.
(R=N 1°57’ W) 372.21 feet along a westerly boundary line of said entire tract; thence
N. 01°27'59" E. 305.32 feet; thence N. 00°14'56" E. 393.91 feet; thence N. 89°41'49" W. 212.79
feet to the Point of Beginning.

The above-described parcel of land contains 2,959,425 sq. ft. or 67.939 acres, more or less.
EXHIBIT B – MAP OF THE PROJECT AREA
EXHIBIT C: PROJECT AREA PLAN
                                 RESOLUTION NO. R2024____

     A RESOLUTION OF THE REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY OF SOUTH SALT LAKE
        ADOPTING THE PROJECT AREA BUDGET FOR THE CENTRAL 15 CRA.

        WHEREAS, the Redevelopment Agency of South Salt Lake (the "Agency") was created
to transact the business and exercise the powers provided for in the current Limited Purpose Local
Government Entities - Community Reinvestment Agency Act, Title 17C of the Utah Code Ann.
1953, as amended (the "Act"); and

        WHEREAS, the Agency has adopted by Resolution the Central 15 CRA Plan (the “Plan”)
for the Central 15 Community Reinvestment Project Area (the “Project Area”); and

        WHEREAS, the Plan allows for the Agency to collect tax increment created within the
Project Area to assist in the creation of jobs, to meet other goals and objectives as outlined in the
Plan, to promote economic development, and provide a public benefit within the City of South
Salt Lake (the “City”); and

       WHEREAS, the Agency has prepared a Project Area Budget in accordance with the Act.

      WHEREAS, the Agency provided notice of the public hearing in substantial compliance
with the Act; and

      WHEREAS, on March 27, 2024, the Agency held a public hearing on the draft Project Area
Budget and at that hearing allowed public comment on the draft Project Area Budget and whether
the draft Project Area Plan should be revised, approved or rejected; and

       WHEREAS, after holding the public hearing, and at the same meeting, the Agency con-
sidered the oral and written objections to the draft Project Area Budget, and whether to revise,
approve or reject the draft Project Area Budget.

NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, by the Governing Board of the Redevelopment
Agency of South Salt Lake:

       1.     All comments and objections to the draft Project Area Budget (if any) have been
considered and are, unless otherwise provided in the minutes of this meeting (if at all), passed
upon.

       2.     The Project Area Budget attached hereto as Exhibit A and incorporated herein, is
hereby approved and adopted effective immediately.

        3.      The Agency staff is authorized to finalize negotiations with the taxing entities that
levy a certified rate in the Project Area, to participate with the Agency in the implementation and
funding of the Budget in accordance with the Act.

       4.      This Resolution takes effect immediately.
DATED this_____day of______________2024.


BY THE REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY:


_____________________________

LeAnne Huff, RDA Chair


RDA Board Vote as Recorded:
Bynum:
Williams:
Huff:
Mitchell:
Pinkney:
Sanchez:
Thomas:




ATTEST:




Ariel Andrus, RDA Secretary
EXHIBIT A: PROJECT AREA BUDGET
                           RESOLUTION NO. R2024____________

   A RESOLUTION OF THE REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY OF SOUTH SALT LAKE
AUTHORIZING THE EXECUTION OF AN INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT
WITH THE CITY OF SOUTH SALT LAKE REGARDING TAX INCREMENT FUNDING IN
                   THE CENTRAL 15 CRA PROJECT AREA.

      WHEREAS, the Redevelopment Agency of South Salt Lake (the “Agency”) has been
created to transact the business and exercise all of the powers provided for by Title 17C of the
Utah Code Annotated, “Limited Purpose Local Government Entities — Community Reinvestment
Agency Act” (the “Act”);

     WHEREAS, the Agency, in furtherance of the purposes of the Act, designated the Central
15 CRA (the “Project Area”), adopted a Community Reinvestment Project Area Plan (the “Project
Area Plan”) and adopted a Community Reinvestment Project Area Budget (the “Project Area
Budget”) for that Project Area; and

      WHEREAS, the Agency desires to enter into an Interlocal Cooperation Agreement with the
City of South Salt Lake, substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A, providing for the
payment of real property tax increment funds within the Project Area to the Agency for a period
of 20 years.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the Governing Board of the Redevelopment Agency
of South Salt Lake:

        1. The Agreement in substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit A is hereby
approved, and the Chair of the Board is authorized and directed to execute the same for and on
behalf of the Agency. The Chair is authorized to approve any minor modifications, amendments,
or revisions to the Agreement as may be in the Agency’s best interest and in harmony with the
overall intent and purpose of the Agreement, and the Chair’s signature upon the final Agreement
will constitute the Agency’s acceptance of all such minor modifications, amendments, or revisions.

       2. The effective date of the Agreement shall be the date as indicated in the Agreement.

       3. This resolution takes effect upon adoption.

           (signatures appear on next page; remainder of page intentionally left blank)
DATED this_____day of______________2024.


BY THE REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY:


_____________________________
LeAnne Huff, RDA Chair


RDA Board Vote as Recorded:
       Bynum:        ____
      Williams:
      Huff:
      Mitchell:
      Pinkney:
      Sanchez:
      Thomas:




ATTEST:



Ariel Andrus, RDA Secretary
    Exhibit A
Form of Agreement
                          INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT

THIS INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT is made and entered into this _____ day ________,
2024, by and between the REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY OF SOUTH SALT LAKE, a community
development and renewal agency and political subdivision of the State of Utah (the “Agency”), and THE
CITY OF SOUTH SALT LAKE, a political subdivision of the State of Utah (the “City” or the “Taxing
Entity”). The Agency and the Taxing Entity may also be referred to individually as a “Party” and collectively
as the “Parties.”

        A.       WHEREAS, the Agency operates under the provisions the Community Development and
        Renewal Agencies Act, Title 17C of the Utah Code (the “Act”), and is authorized and empowered under
        the Act to undertake, among other things, various community development activities pursuant to the
        Act, including, among other things, assisting the City in development activities that are likely to advance
        the policies, goals and objectives of the City’s general plan, contributing to capital improvements which
        substantially benefit the City, creating economic benefits to the City, and improving the public health,
        safety and welfare of its citizens; and

        B.     WHEREAS, this Agreement is made pursuant to the provisions of the Act and the Interlocal
        Cooperation Act (Utah Code Title 11, Chapter 13 hereafter the “Cooperation Act”); and

        C.      WHEREAS, the Agency has created the Central 15 CRA (the “Project Area”), through the
        adoption of the Central 15 CRA Project Area Plan (the “Project Area Plan”), located within the City,
        which Project Area is described in the Project Area Plan attached hereto as Exhibit “A” and incorporated
        herein by this reference; and

        D.       WHEREAS, the Project Area contains a significant amount of vacant and underutilized parcels,
        which are anticipated to be developed, with encouragement and planning by the Agency, into
        commercial, warehouse, and mixed uses. The Agency has not entered into any participation or
        development agreements with developers but anticipates that prior to development of the Project Area,
        the City and the Agency may enter into one or more Development/Participation Agreements with one
        or more developers, which will provide certain terms and conditions upon which the Project Area will
        be developed using, in part, increased property taxes, referred to as “Tax Increment” as that term is
        defined in the Act, generated from the Project Area; and

        E.      WHEREAS, as explained further in the Plan, the City and developers will incur significant
        costs and expenses to provide redevelopment infrastructure improvements, including assistance with
        demolition, construction, and other expenditures; and

        F.       WHEREAS, historically, the Project Area has generated a total of $11,040 per year in property
        taxes for the various taxing entities, including the City, Salt Lake County (the “County”), Salt Lake
        County Library (the “Library”), Granite School District (the “School District”), the South Salt Lake
        Valley Mosquito Abatement District; the Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District; the Mt. Olympus
        Improvement District; and the Central Utah Water Conservancy District (collectively, the “Taxing
        Entities”); and

        G.      WHEREAS, upon full development as contemplated in the Project Area Plan, property taxes
        produced by the Project Area for the Taxing Entities collectively are projected to total approximately
        $1,922,221 per year; and

        H.       WHEREAS, the Agency has requested the Taxing Entities to participate in the promotion of
        development in the Project Area by agreeing to remit to the Agency for a specified period of time
        specified portions of the increased property tax which will be generated by the Project Area; and
        I.       WHEREAS, it is in the best interest of the citizens of the Taxing Entity for the Taxing Entity
        to remit such payments to the Agency in order to permit the Agency to leverage private development of
        the Project Area; and

        J.        WHEREAS, the Agency has retained EFG Consulting, an independent financial consulting
        firm with substantial experience regarding community development projects and tax increment funding
        across the State of Utah, to prepare the Project Area Plan and to provide a report regarding the need and
        justification for investment of Tax Increment revenues from and within the Project Area. A copy of the
        report is included in the Project Area Plan attached as Exhibit “A”; and

        K.       WHEREAS, the Agency has also created the Central 15 CRA Project Area Budget (the
        “Project Area Budget”), a copy of which is attached as Exhibit “A”, which Project Area Budget outlines
        the anticipated generation, payment, and use of Tax Increment within the Project Area; and

        L.      WHEREAS, the parties desire to set forth in writing their agreements regarding the nature and
        timing of such assistance;

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises set forth herein and other good and valuable
consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties agree as follows:

        1.       Additional Tax Revenue. The City has determined that significant additional property tax
        revenue (i.e., Tax Increment) will likely be generated by the development of the Project Area as
        described in further detail in the Project Area Plan and Project Area Budget. Each of the parties
        acknowledge, however, that the development activity required for the generation of the Tax Increment
        is not likely to occur within the foreseeable future or to the degree possible or desired without Tax
        Increment participation in order to induce and encourage such development activity.

        2.       Offset of Development Costs and Expenses. The Taxing Entity has determined that it is in
        the best interests of its citizens to pay specified portions of its portion of Tax Increment to the Agency
        in order for the Agency to offset costs and expenses which will be incurred by the Agency in the
        construction and installation of infrastructure improvements and other development related costs needed
        to serve the Project Area, to the extent permitted by the Act, as amended from time to time.

        3.       Base Year and Base Year Value. The base year, for purposes of calculation of the Base
        Taxable Value (as that term is defined in the Act), shall be 2023, meaning the Base Taxable Value shall,
        to the extent and in the manner defined by the Act, be equal to the equalized taxable value shown on the
        2023 Salt Lake County assessment rolls for all property located within the Project Area (which is
        currently estimated to be $1,147,400, but is subject to final adjustment and verification by the County
        and Agency).

        4.       Agreement(s) with Developer(s). The Agency is authorized to enter into one or more
        agreements with one or more developers which may provide for the payment of certain amounts of Tax
        Increment (to the extent such Tax Increment is actually paid to and received by the Agency from year
        to year) to the developer(s) conditional upon the developer(s)’s meeting of certain performance
        measures as outlined in said agreement. Such agreement shall be consistent with the terms and
        conditions of this Agreement, shall require as a condition of the payment to the Developer that the
        Developer, or its approved successors in title as owners of the Property, shall pay any and all taxes and
        assessments which shall be assessed against the Property in accordance with levies made by applicable
        municipal entities in accordance with the laws of the state of Utah applicable to such levies, and such
        other performance measures as the Agency may deem appropriate.

        5.      Payment Terms. The County is authorized and instructed to pay Tax Increment to the Agency
        annually, according to the following schedule (and the County will pay the remaining balance of the
        Tax Increment directly to the Taxing Entity annually): 60% for 20 years.
6.        Property Tax Increase. This Agreement provides for the payment of the increase in real and
personal property taxes collected from the Project Area by the County acting as the tax collection agency
for the Taxing Entity. Real and personal property taxes which are the subject of this Agreement shall
not include taxes collected from the Project Area by the County, acting in its capacity as the tax
collection agency for the City, which are to be paid to or utilized by abatement districts, special service
or improvement districts or other entities for which the County acts as the tax collection agency, nor
shall it include any component of real property taxes retained by the County as payment for costs
incurred in the collection of real property taxes for itself or other applicable agencies. It is expressly
understood that the real property taxes which are the subject of this Agreement are only those real and
personal property taxes actually collected by the County from the Project Area.

7.      No Independent Duty. The Taxing Entity shall be responsible to remit to the Agency only
Tax Increment actually received by the County. The Taxing Entity shall have no independent duty to
pay any amount to the Agency other than the Tax Increment actually received by the Taxing Entity on
an annual basis as described in Section 5 above.

8.      Authority to Bind. Each individual executing this Agreement represents and warrants that
such person is authorized to do so, and, that upon executing this Agreement, this Agreement shall be
binding and enforceable in accordance with its terms upon the party for whom such person is acting.

9.       Further Documents and Acts. Each of the parties hereto agrees to cooperate in good faith
with the others, and to execute and deliver such further documents and perform such other acts as may
be reasonably necessary or appropriate to consummate and carry into effect the transactions
contemplated under this Agreement.

10.      Notices. Any notice, request, demand, consent, approval, or other communication required or
permitted hereunder or by law shall be validly given or made only if in writing and delivered to an
officer or duly authorized representative of the other party in person or by Federal Express, private
commercial delivery or courier service for next business day delivery, or by United States mail, duly
certified or registered (return receipt requested), postage prepaid, and addressed to the party for whom
intended, as follows:

        If to the Taxing Entity:
        South Salt Lake City
        Attn: Mayor
        220 East Morris Ave.
        South Salt Lake, UT 84115

        If to the Agency:
        South Salt Lake City Redevelopment Agency
        Attn: Executive Director
        220 East Morris Ave.
        South Salt Lake, UT 84115

Any party may from time to time, by written notice to the others as provided above, designate a different
address which shall be substituted for that specified above. Notice sent by mail shall be deemed served
or delivered seventy-two (72) hours after mailing. Notice by any other method shall be deemed served
or delivered upon actual receipt at the address or facsimile number listed above. Delivery of courtesy
copies noted above shall be as a courtesy only and failure of any party to give or receive a courtesy copy
shall not be deemed to be a failure to provide notice otherwise properly delivered to a party to this
Agreement.

11.     Entire Agreement. This Agreement is the final expression of and contains the entire agreement
between the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes all prior understandings
with respect thereto. This Agreement may not be modified, changed, supplemented, or terminated; nor
may any obligations hereunder be waived, except by written instrument signed by the party to be
charged or by its agent duly authorized in writing or as otherwise expressly permitted herein. This
Agreement and its exhibits constitute the entire agreement between the parties hereto pertaining to the
subject matter hereof, and the final, complete and exclusive expression of the terms and conditions
thereof. All prior agreements, representations, negotiations and understandings of the parties hereto, oral
or written, express or implied, are hereby superseded and merged herein.

12.      No Third Party Benefit. The parties do not intend to confer any benefit hereunder on any
person, firm or corporation other than the parties hereto. There are no intended third party beneficiaries
to this Agreement.

13.      Construction. Headings at the beginning of each paragraph and subparagraph are solely for
the convenience of the parties and are not a part of the Agreement. Whenever required by the context
of this Agreement, the singular shall include the plural and the masculine shall include the feminine and
vice versa. Unless otherwise indicated, all references to paragraphs and subparagraphs are to this
Agreement. In the event the date on which any of the parties is required to take any action under the
terms of this Agreement is not a business day, the action shall be taken on the next succeeding business
day.

14.     Partial Invalidity. If any term or provision of this Agreement or the application thereof to any
person or circumstance shall, to any extent, be invalid or unenforceable, the remainder of this
Agreement, or the application of such term or provision to persons or circumstances other than those as
to which it is held invalid or unenforceable, shall not be affected thereby, and each such term and
provision of this Agreement shall be valid and shall be enforced to the fullest extent permitted by law.

15.      Amendments. No addition to or modification of any provision contained in this Agreement
shall be effective unless fully set forth in writing executed by each of the parties hereto.

16.      Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which
shall be deemed an original, but all of which together shall constitute but one and the same instrument.

17.     Waivers. No waiver of any breach of any covenant or provision herein contained shall be
deemed a waiver of any preceding or succeeding breach thereof or of any other covenant or provision
herein contained. No extension of time for performance of any obligation or act shall be deemed an
extension of the time for performance of any other obligation or act.

18.      Governing Law. This Agreement and the exhibits attached hereto shall be governed by and
construed under the laws of the State of Utah. In the event of any dispute hereunder, it is agreed that
the sole and exclusive venue shall be in a court of competent jurisdiction in Salt Lake County, Utah,
and the parties hereto agree to submit to the jurisdiction of such court.

19.      Declaration of Invalidity. In the event that a court of competent jurisdiction declares that the
County cannot pay and/or that the Agency cannot receive payments of the Tax Increment, declares that
the Agency cannot pay the Tax Increment to developers, or takes any other action which has the effect
of eliminating or reducing the payments of Tax Increment received by the Agency, the Agency’s
obligation to pay the Tax Increment to developers shall be reduced or eliminated accordingly, the
Agency, and the County shall take such steps as are reasonably required to not permit the payment
and/or receipt of the Tax Increment to be declared invalid.

20.     No Separate Legal Entity. No separate legal entity is created by this Agreement.

21.    Duration. This Agreement shall terminate after the final payment of Tax Increment to the
Agency as described in Section 5 above.

22.     Assignment. No party may assign its rights, duties, or obligations under this Agreement
without the prior written consent first being obtained from all parties. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
such consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed so long as the assignee thereof shall be
reasonably expected to be able to perform the duties and obligations being assigned.

23.      Termination. Upon any termination of this Agreement resulting from the uncured default of
any party, the order of any court of competent jurisdiction or termination as a result of any legislative
action requiring such termination, then any funds held by the Agency and for which the Agency shall
not be required to disburse to developers in accordance with the agreements which govern such
disbursement, then such funds shall be returned to the party originally remitting same to the Agency
and upon such return this Agreement shall be deemed terminated and of no further force or effect.

24.     Interlocal Cooperation Act. In satisfaction of the requirements of the Cooperation Act in
connection with this Agreement, the Parties agree as follows:

        a.       This Agreement shall be authorized and adopted by resolution of the legislative body
                 or governing board of each Party pursuant to and in accordance with the provisions of
                 Section 11-13-202.5 of the Cooperation Act;

        b.       This Agreement shall be reviewed as to proper form and compliance with applicable
                 law by a duly authorized attorney on behalf of each Party pursuant to and in accordance
                 with the provisions of Section 11-13-202.5(3) of the Cooperation Act;

        c.       A duly executed original counterpart of this Agreement shall be filed immediately with
                 the keeper of records of each Party pursuant to Section 11-13-209 of the Cooperation
                 Act;

        d.       The Executive Director of the Agency is hereby designated the Administrator of the
                 Agreement for all purposes of the Cooperation Act, pursuant to Section 11-13-207 of
                 the Cooperation Act;

        e.       Should a party to this Agreement desire to terminate this Agreement, in part or in
                 whole, each party to the Agreement must adopt, by resolution, an amended Interlocal
                 Cooperation Agreement stating the reasons for such termination. Any such amended
                 Interlocal Cooperation Agreement must be in harmony with any
                 development/participation agreement(s) entered into by the Agency as described in
                 this Agreement.

         f.      Immediately after execution of this Agreement by both Parties, the Agency shall, on
                 behalf of both parties, cause to be published notice regarding this Agreement pursuant
                 to Section 11-13-219 of the Cooperation Act, and on behalf of the Agency in
                 accordance with Utah Code Annotated Section 17C-4-202.

         g.      This Agreement will not take legal effect and the notice described in Paragraph 25.g.,
                 shall be issued until this Agreement (a) has been approved by each Party as required
                 by Utah Code Section 11-13-202(2), (b) has been submitted to the attorney authorized
                 to represent each Party for review as to proper form and compliance with law as
                 required by Utah Code Section 11-13-203, and (c) has been filed with the keeper of
                 records of each Party, as required by Utah Code Section 11-13-209.

         h.      The term of this Agreement shall commence on the publication of the notice required
                 by Utah Code Annotated §17C-4-202 of the Act and shall continue through the date
                 on which all of the Entity’s Share for the specified twenty-one (21) year period has
                 been paid to the Agency as provided for herein or the Agency ceases to receive such
                 Tax Increment pursuant to Section l.c., but in any event, unless amended, this
                 Agreement shall terminate no later than the end of December 31, 2046. No other
                 termination, in part or in whole, or this Agreement shall be made without the adoption,
                 by resolution, of an amendment to this Agreement by all the Parties.
                 i.      The Parties agree that they do not, by this Agreement, create an interlocal entity or
                         any separate entity.

                  j.     There is no financial or joint or cooperative undertaking and no budget shall be
                         established or maintained.

                  k.     No real or personal property will be acquired, held or disposed of or used in
                         conjunction with a joint or cooperative undertaking.


IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement on the day specified above.

                                         City:     CITY OF SOUTH SALT LAKE



Attest:                                           By:
                                                        Cherie Wood, Mayor

Ariel Andrus, City Recorder


Approved as to form:



Joshua T. Collins, City Attorney




                                      Agency:     REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY OF SOUTH SALT LAKE


Attest:                                           By:
                                                        Cherie Wood, RDA Executive Director



Ariel Andrus, Agency Secretary


Approved as to form:




Joshua T. Collins, Attorney for Agency
         EXHIBIT “A”
             To
   INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT

Project Area Plan & Project Area Budget
                            RESOLUTION NO. R2024____________

  A RESOLUTION OF THE REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY OF SOUTH SALT LAKE
AUTHORIZING THE EXECUTION OF AN INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT
  WITH THE CITY OF SOUTH SALT LAKE REGARDING A LOAN FOR PROPERTY
                            ACQUISITION.

      WHEREAS, the Redevelopment Agency of South Salt Lake (the “Agency”) has been
created to transact the business and exercise all of the powers provided for by Title 17C of the
Utah Code Annotated, Limited Purpose Local Government Entities — Community Reinvestment
Agency Act (the “Act”);

      WHEREAS, the Agency, in furtherance of the purposes of the Act, has authorized the
Agency’s Executive Director to enter into a purchase and sale agreement to purchase the property
located at 2280 South State Street in South Salt Lake (the “Property”); and

      WHEREAS, in order to finance the purchase of the Property, the Agency has requested, and
the City has agreed to provide, funds as detailed further in the Interlocal Cooperation Agreement
(the “Agreement”) attached as Exhibit A and incorporated herein by this reference, for the
purchase of the Property; and

      WHEREAS, Utah Code 17C-1-207(1)(a)(viii) states in relevant part that in order to assist
and cooperate in the planning, undertaking, construction, or operation of project area development
within in area in which the public entity is authorized to act, a public entity may lend, grant, or
contribute funds to an agency for project area development or proposed project area development,
including assigning revenue or taxes in support of an agency bond or obligation; and

     WHEREAS, the Property is located in the Agency’s Market Station Project Area; and

      WHEREAS, the Agency and the City desire now to enter into an Interlocal Cooperation
Agreement, substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A, providing for a loan from the
City to the Agency for acquisition of the Property as further detailed in the attachment.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the Redevelopment Agency of South Salt Lake:

        1.       The Agreement in substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit A is hereby
approved, and the Chair of the Board is authorized and directed to execute the same for and on
behalf of the Agency. The Chair is authorized to approve any minor modifications, amendments,
or revisions to the Agreement as may be in the Agency’s best interest and in harmony with the
overall intent and purpose of the Agreement, and the Chair’s signature upon the final Agreement
will constitute the Agency’s acceptance of all such minor modifications, amendments, or revisions.

       2.      The effective date of the Agreement shall be the date as indicated in the Agreement.

       3.      This resolution takes effect upon adoption.

            (signatures appear on next page; remainder of page intentionally left blank)
DATED this_____day of______________2024.


BY THE REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY:
_____________________________
LeAnne Huff, RDA Chair


RDA Board Vote as Recorded:
      Bynum:
       Williams:
       Huff:
       Mitchell:
       Pinkney:
       Sanchez:
       Thomas:




ATTEST:


Ariel Andrus, RDA Secretary
    Exhibit A
Form of Agreement
                           INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT

THIS INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT is made and entered into this _____ day ________,
2024, by and between the REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY OF SOUTH SALT LAKE, a community
development and renewal agency and political subdivision of the State of Utah (the “Agency”), and THE
CITY OF SOUTH SALT LAKE, a political subdivision of the State of Utah (the “City”). The Agency and
the City may also be referred to individually as a “Party” and collectively as the “Parties.”

        WHEREAS, the Redevelopment Agency of South Salt Lake (the “Agency”) has been created to transact
business and exercise all of the powers provided for by Title 17C of the Utah Code Annotated, Limited Purpose
Local Government Entities — Community Reinvestment Agency Act (the “Act”)

          WHEREAS, the Agency is authorized and empowered under the Act to undertake various community
development activities pursuant to the Act, including, among other things, assisting the City in development
activities that are likely to advance the policies, goals and objectives of the City’s general plan, contributing to
capital improvements which substantially benefit the City, creating economic benefits to the City, and improving
the public health, safety and welfare of its citizens; and

         WHEREAS, the Agency, in furtherance of the purposes of the Act, has authorized the Agency’s
Executive Director to enter into a purchase and sale agreement to purchase the property located at 2280 South
State Street in South Salt Lake (the “Property”); and

        WHEREAS, in order to finance the purchase of the Property, the Agency has requested, and the City
has agreed to provide funds as detailed further below; and

         WHEREAS, Utah Code 17C-1-207(1)(a)(viii) states in relevant part that in order to assist and cooperate
in the planning, undertaking, construction, or operation of project area development within an area in which the
public entity is authorized to act, a public entity may lend, grant, or contribute funds to an agency for project
area development or proposed project area development, including assigning revenue or taxes in support of an
agency bond or obligation; and

        WHEREAS, the Property is located in the Agency’s Market Station Project Area; and

       WHEREAS, this Agreement is made pursuant to the provisions of the Act and the Interlocal
Cooperation Act (Utah Code Title 11, Chapter 13 hereafter the “Cooperation Act”); and

         WHEREAS, the parties desire to set forth in writing their agreements regarding the nature and timing
of such assistance;

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises set forth herein and other good and valuable
consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties agree as follows:

        1.       Scope. The City has determined that acquisition of the Property is in the best interests of the
        City in order to further the purposes of the Act. In order to effectuate the purchase of the Property the
        Agency has determined funding from the City is required in the amount of $15,750,00.00 (the Loan
        Amount” or the “Amount”). The City has agreed and the South Salt Lake City Council has approved
        the transfer of the Loan Amount through resolution, which is attached as Exhibit A and incorporated
        herein by this reference. The Loan Amount shall only be used by the Agency to effectuate the purchase
        and disposition of the Property.

        2.       Term. The Agency shall receive a one-time payment of the Loan Amount. The Loan Amount
        shall be repaid to the City upon the Agency’s disposal of the Property through sale to another entity.
        The Agency shall repay the Loan Amount to the City at the time of settlement of the sale of the Property,
        at which time this Agreement shall automatically terminate.
3.       Agreement(s) with Developer(s). The Agency is authorized to enter into one or more
agreements with one or more developers in order to dispose of the Property. Such agreement shall be
consistent with the terms and conditions of this Agreement, shall require as a condition of the payment
to the Developer that the Developer, or its approved successors in title as owners of the Property, shall
pay any and all taxes and assessments which shall be assessed against the Property in accordance with
levies made by applicable municipal entities in accordance with the laws of the state of Utah applicable
to such levies, and such other performance measures as the Agency may deem appropriate.

4.      Authority to Bind. Each individual executing this Agreement represents and warrants that
such person is authorized to do so, and, that upon executing this Agreement, this Agreement shall be
binding and enforceable in accordance with its terms upon the party for whom such person is acting.

5.       Further Documents and Acts. Each of the parties hereto agrees to cooperate in good faith
with the others, and to execute and deliver such further documents and perform such other acts as may
be reasonably necessary or appropriate to consummate and carry into effect the transactions
contemplated under this Agreement.

6.       Notices. Any notice, request, demand, consent, approval, or other communication required or
permitted hereunder or by law shall be validly given or made only if in writing and delivered to an
officer or duly authorized representative of the other party in person or by Federal Express, private
commercial delivery or courier service for next business day delivery, or by United States mail, duly
certified or registered (return receipt requested), postage prepaid, and addressed to the party for whom
intended, as follows:

        If to the City:
        South Salt Lake City
        Attn: Mayor
        220 East Morris Ave.
        South Salt Lake, UT 84115

        If to the Agency:
        South Salt Lake City Redevelopment Agency
        Attn: Executive Director
        220 East Morris Ave.
        South Salt Lake, UT 84115

Any party may from time to time, by written notice to the others as provided above, designate a different
address which shall be substituted for that specified above. Notice sent by mail shall be deemed served
or delivered seventy-two (72) hours after mailing. Notice by any other method shall be deemed served
or delivered upon actual receipt at the address listed above. Delivery of courtesy copies noted above
shall be as a courtesy only and failure of any party to give or receive a courtesy copy shall not be deemed
to be a failure to provide notice otherwise properly delivered- to a party to this Agreement.

7.       Entire Agreement. This Agreement is the final expression of and contains the entire agreement
between the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes all prior understandings
with respect thereto. This Agreement may not be modified, changed, supplemented, or terminated; nor
may any obligations hereunder be waived, except by written instrument signed by the party to be
charged or by its agent duly authorized in writing or as otherwise expressly permitted herein. This
Agreement and its exhibits constitute the entire agreement between the parties hereto pertaining to the
subject matter hereof, and the final, complete and exclusive expression of the terms and conditions
thereof. All prior agreements, representations, negotiations and understandings of the parties hereto, oral
or written, express or implied, are hereby superseded and merged herein.
8.       No Third Party Benefit. The parties do not intend to confer any benefit hereunder on any
person, firm or corporation other than the parties hereto. There are no intended third party beneficiaries
to this Agreement.

9.       Construction. Headings at the beginning of each paragraph and subparagraph are solely for
the convenience of the parties and are not a part of the Agreement. Whenever required by the context
of this Agreement, the singular shall include the plural and the masculine shall include the feminine and
vice versa. Unless otherwise indicated, all references to paragraphs and subparagraphs are to this
Agreement. In the event the date on which any of the parties is required to take any action under the
terms of this Agreement is not a business day, the action shall be taken on the next succeeding business
day.

10.     Partial Invalidity. If any term or provision of this Agreement or the application thereof to any
person or circumstance shall, to any extent, be invalid or unenforceable, the remainder of this
Agreement, or the application of such term or provision to persons or circumstances other than those as
to which it is held invalid or unenforceable, shall not be affected thereby, and each such term and
provision of this Agreement shall be valid and shall be enforced to the fullest extent permitted by law.

11.      Amendments. No addition to or modification of any provision contained in this Agreement
shall be effective unless fully set forth in writing executed by each of the parties hereto.

12.      Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which
shall be deemed an original, but all of which together shall constitute but one and the same instrument.

13.     Waivers. No waiver of any breach of any covenant or provision herein contained shall be
deemed a waiver of any preceding or succeeding breach thereof or of any other covenant or provision
herein contained. No extension of time for performance of any obligation or act shall be deemed an
extension of the time for performance of any other obligation or act.

14.      Governing Law. This Agreement and the exhibits attached hereto shall be governed by and
construed under the laws of the State of Utah. In the event of any dispute hereunder, it is agreed that
the sole and exclusive venue shall be in a court of competent jurisdiction in Salt Lake County, Utah,
and the parties hereto agree to submit to the jurisdiction of such court.

15.      Declaration of Invalidity. In the event that a court of competent jurisdiction declares that the
County cannot pay and/or that the Agency cannot receive payments of the Tax Increment, declares that
the Agency cannot pay the Tax Increment to developers, or takes any other action which has the effect
of eliminating or reducing the payments of Tax Increment received by the Agency, the Agency’s
obligation to pay the Tax Increment to developers shall be reduced or eliminated accordingly, the
Agency, and the County shall take such steps as are reasonably required to not permit the payment
and/or receipt of the Tax Increment to be declared invalid.

16.     No Separate Legal Entity. No separate legal entity is created by this Agreement.

17.     Assignment. No party may assign its rights, duties, or obligations under this Agreement
without the prior written consent first being obtained from all parties. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
such consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed so long as the assignee thereof shall be
reasonably expected to be able to perform the duties and obligations being assigned.

18.     Interlocal Cooperation Act. In satisfaction of the requirements of the Cooperation Act in
connection with this Agreement, the Parties agree as follows:

        a.       This Agreement shall be authorized and adopted by resolution of the legislative body
                 or governing board of each Party pursuant to and in accordance with the provisions of
                 Section 11-13-202.5 of the Cooperation Act;
b.        This Agreement shall be reviewed as to proper form and compliance with applicable
          law by a duly authorized attorney on behalf of each Party pursuant to and in accordance
          with the provisions of Section 11-13-202.5(3) of the Cooperation Act;

c.        A duly executed original counterpart of this Agreement shall be filed immediately with
          the keeper of records of each Party pursuant to Section 11-13-209 of the Cooperation
          Act;

d.        The Executive Director of the Agency is hereby designated the Administrator of the
          Agreement for all purposes of the Cooperation Act, pursuant to Section 11-13-207 of
          the Cooperation Act;

e.        Should a party to this Agreement desire to terminate this Agreement, in part or in
          whole, each party to the Agreement must adopt, by resolution, an amended Interlocal
          Cooperation Agreement stating the reasons for such termination. Any such amended
          Interlocal Cooperation Agreement must be in harmony with any
          development/participation agreement(s) entered into by the Agency as described in
          this Agreement.

 f.       Immediately after execution of this Agreement by both Parties, the Agency shall, on
          behalf of both parties, cause to be published notice regarding this Agreement pursuant
          to Section 11-13-219 of the Cooperation Act, and on behalf of the Agency in
          accordance with Utah Code Annotated Section 17C-4-202.

 g.       This Agreement will not take legal effect and the notice described in Paragraph 25.g.,
          shall be issued until this Agreement (a) has been approved by each Party as required
          by Utah Code Section 11-13-202(2), (b) has been submitted to the attorney authorized
          to represent each Party for review as to proper form and compliance with law as
          required by Utah Code Section 11-13-203, and (c) has been filed with the keeper of
          records of each Party, as required by Utah Code Section 11-13-209.

 h.       The term of this Agreement shall commence on the publication of the notice required
          by Utah Code Annotated §17C-4-202 of the Act and shall continue through the date
          on which all of the Entity’s Share for the specified twenty-one (21) year period has
          been paid to the Agency as provided for herein or the Agency ceases to receive such
          Tax Increment pursuant to Section l.c., but in any event, unless amended, this
          Agreement shall terminate no later than the end of December 31, 2046. No other
          termination, in part or in whole, or this Agreement shall be made without the adoption,
          by resolution, of an amendment to this Agreement by all the Parties.

 i.       The Parties agree that they do not, by this Agreement, create an interlocal entity or
          any separate entity.

     j.   There is no financial or joint or cooperative undertaking and no budget shall be
          established or maintained.

     k.   No real or personal property will be acquired, held or disposed of or used in
          conjunction with a joint or cooperative undertaking.

     l.   The effective date shall be the date this Agreement is fully executed.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement on the day specified above.

                                         City:   CITY OF SOUTH SALT LAKE



Attest:                                          By:
                                                       Cherie Wood, Mayor

Ariel Andrus, City Recorder


Approved as to form:



Joshua T. Collins, City Attorney




                                     Agency:     REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY OF SOUTH SALT LAKE


Attest:                                          By:
                                                       Cherie Wood, RDA Executive Director



Ariel Andrus, Agency Secretary


Approved as to form:




Joshua T. Collins, Attorney for Agency
                      EXHIBIT “A”
                          To
                INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT

South Salt Lake City Council Resolution Authorizing Loan to Agency
