                                     South Salt Lake City Council
                                     REGULAR MEETING AGENDA

  Public notice is hereby given that the South Salt Lake City Council will hold a Regular Meeting on
  Wednesday, September 25, 2024, in the City Council Chambers, 220 East Morris Avenue, Suite 200,
  commencing at 7:00 p.m., or as soon thereafter as possible.

  To watch the meeting live click the link below to join:
  https://zoom.us/j/93438486912

  Watch recorded City Council meetings at: youtube.com/@SouthSaltLakeCity

  Conducting                                                                  Nick Mitchell, District 4
  Council Chair                                                               Sharla Bynum, District 3
  Sergeant at Arms                                                            South Salt Lake PD

Opening Ceremonies
      1. Welcome/Introductions                                                Nick Mitchell
      2. Pledge of Allegiance                                                 Clarissa Williams

Approval of Minutes
      August 7th, Truth In Taxation Public Hearing
      August 21st, City Council & Planning Commission Special Meeting

No Action Comments
      1. Scheduling                                                           City Recorder
      2. Public Comments/Questions
             a. Response to Comments/Questions
                 (at the discretion of the conducting Council Member)
      3. Mayor Comments
      4. City Attorney Comments
      5. City Council Comments

Action Items

Appointments by the Mayor
      1. Appointment of Judicial Nominating Committee Members

Unfinished Business
       1. An Ordinance of the South Salt Lake City Council                    Eliza Ungricht
          Amending §17.10.010 of the South Salt Lake City
          Municipal Code to Allow for Off-Premise Beer
          Alcoholic Beverage Sales in Retail Space on the
          Ground-Floor of Multi-Family Dwelling Developments
          and to Amend the Park and Ride Definition

Motion for Closed Meeting

Adjourn


See page two for continuation of Agenda
Title 17 –
Definitions
SSLC City Council
September 25, 2024

                     1
Overview of Proposed Ordinance Amendment




                                           2
Staff Recommendation
Staff recommends the City Council for an ordinance amending Section 1 of
Title 17 of the South Salt Lake City Municipal Code (“Title 17”) to the allow
off-premise beer sales in the ground floor retail space of multi-family
developments and amend the Park and Ride definition.




                                                                           3
City Council Options
Option 1: Recommend Approval
• Move to approve the ordinance amending Section 1 of Title 17 of the South Salt
  Lake City Municipal Code (“Title 17”) to the allow off-premise beer sales in the
  ground floor retail space of multi-family developments and amend the Park and
  Ride definition.

Option 2: Recommendation of Denial
• Move to deny the ordinance amending Section 1 of Title 17 of the South Salt Lake
  City Municipal Code (“Title 17”) to the allow off-premise beer sales in the ground
  floor retail space of multi-family developments and amend the Park and Ride
  definition.



                                                                                 4
City Council Options
Option 3: Continuance
• Move to table the ordinance amending Section 1 of Title 17 of the South Salt Lake
  City Municipal Code (“Title 17”) to the allow off-premise beer sales in the ground
  floor retail space of multi-family developments and amend the Park and Ride
  definition.




                                                                                 5
                               ORDINANCE NO. 2024-

        AN ORDINANCE OF THE SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL
        AMENDING § 17.01.010 OF THE SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY MUNICIPAL
        CODE TO ALLOW FOR OFF-PREMISE BEER ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE
        SALES IN RETAIL SPACE ON THE GROUND-FLOOR OF MULTI-FAMILY
        DWELLING DEVELOPMENTS AND TO AMEND THE PARK AND RIDE
        DEFINITION.

       WHEREAS, the South Salt Lake City Council (“City Council”) is authorized to enact
 and amend ordinances governing the City of South Salt Lake (“City”); and

       WHEREAS, the City Council is authorized by law to enact, amend, and repeal
 ordinances regulating land use and development within the City; and

        WHEREAS, the proposed amendments to § 17.01.010 of the South Salt Lake City
 Municipal Code would allow Off Premise Beer Alcoholic Beverage Sales in Retail Space
 on the ground-floor of Multi-Family Dwelling developments; and

       WHEREAS, the proposed amendments to § 17.01.010 of the South Salt Lake City
 Municipal Code clarifies that the definition of Park and Ride allows accessory structures
 necessary to the operation of Public Transit; and

       WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a duly noticed public hearing, pursuant to
Utah Code § 10-9a-503 and South Salt Lake City Municipal Code § 17.11.060 on September
19, 2024, and the public had an opportunity to comment on the proposed amendments to
the City’s land use regulations; and

        WHEREAS, the Planning Commission found that the proposed amendments are
 in the best interests of the City and forwarded a unanimous recommendation of approval
 to the City Council; and

        WHEREAS, the City Council met in regular session on September 25, 2024, to
 review, among other things, the proposed amendments, the Planning Commission’s
 recommendation, and the objections, if any, forwarded for the Council’s review and finds
 that the proposed amendments are beneficial to the City, its residents, and business
 members; and

         WHEREAS, the City Council hereby determines that the amendments to the
 definitions listed § 17.01.010 of the South Salt Lake City Municipal Code align with the
 City’s interests in promoting prosperity, development, and orderly growth.

 NOW, THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of the City of South Salt Lake
 as follows:

       SECTION I. Enactment. City of South Salt Lake Municipal Code Title 17 Land Use
 and Development, § 17.10.010 Definitions is hereby amended as outlined in Exhibit A.

                                         Page 1 of
                                         29
       SECTION II. Severability. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or
portion of this ordinance is, for any reason, held invalid or unconstitutional by any court
of competent jurisdiction, such provision shall be deemed a separate, distinct, and
independent provision, and such holding shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portions of this ordinance.

       SECTION III. Conflict with Existing Ordinances, Resolutions, or Policies. To
the extent that any ordinance, resolution, or policy of the City of South Salt Lake conflicts
with the provisions of this ordinance, this ordinance shall prevail.

       SECTION IV. Effective Date. This ordinance shall become effective upon the
Mayor’s signature and publication, or after fifteen (15) days or transmission to the Office
of the Mayor if neither approved nor disapproved by the Mayor, and thereafter,
publication.

                            (Signatures appear on next page.)




                                          Page 2 of
                                          29
Dated this       day of            2024.


                                                        BY THE CITY COUNCIL:



                                                        Sharla Bynum, Council Chair

ATTEST:



Ariel Andrus, City Recorder


City Council Vote as Recorded:
Huff
Thomas
Bynum
Mitchell
Pinkney
Sanchez
Williams


Transmitted to the Mayor’s office on this   day of                                    2024.



       Ariel Andrus, City Recorder


MAYOR’S ACTION:


       Dated this         day of                              , 2024.



                                            Cherie Wood, Mayor
ATTEST:


Ariel Andrus, City Recorder




                                            Page 3 of
                                            29
17.01.010 Definitions.
     "Active Business" means a business holding a current South Salt Lake City business license.
     "Administrative Law Judge" means a person appointed by the Mayor or the Mayor's designee to preside over
administrative hearings.
     "Adult Day Care" means non-residential daytime care and supervision of three (3) or more functionally
impaired adults. Adult Day Care is not Day Treatment or a Homeless Shelter.
       "Affected Entity" for the purposes of required notice of public hearings for a General Plan amendment or the
adoption or revision of a Land Use Regulation, means a county, municipality, local school district, special service
district under Utah Code Annotated (UCA) Title 17D, Chapter 1, Special Service District Act, school district,
interlocal cooperation entity established under UCA Title 11, Chapter 13, Interlocal Cooperation Act, specified
public utility under UCA Title 10, Chapter 9a, Municipal Land Use, Development, and Management Act, a property
Owners' association, or the Utah Department of Transportation, if:
     1.    The entity's services or facilities are likely to require expansion or significant modification because of
           an intended Use of land;
     2.    The entity has filed with the City a copy of the entity's general or long-range plan; or
     3.    The entity has filed with the City a request for notice during the same calendar year and before the City
           provides notice to an Affected Entity in compliance with a requirement imposed under the state Land
           Use Development and Management Act.
     "Alcoholic Beverage, Banquet and Catering" means an entity operating under and holding the required
Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control license issued in accordance with Utah Code Annotated Title 32B,
Chapter 6, Part 6, On-Premise Banquet License, and corresponding City liquor license.
     "Alcoholic Beverage, Bar Establishment" means an entity operating under and holding the required
Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control license issued in accordance with Utah Code Annotated Title 32B,
Chapter 6, Part 4, Bar Establishment License, and corresponding City liquor license.
     "Alcoholic Beverage, Beer Recreational" means an entity operating under and holding the required
Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control license issued in accordance with Utah Code Annotated Title 32B,
Chapter 6, Part 7, On-premise Beer Retailer License, and corresponding City beer license.
     "Alcoholic Beverage, Beer Wholesaler" means an entity operating under and holding the required
Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control license issued in accordance with Utah Code Annotated Title 32B,
Chapter 13, Beer Wholesaling License Act, and corresponding City beer license.
      "Alcoholic Beverage, Hotel" means an entity operating under and holding the required Department of
Alcoholic Beverage Control license issued in accordance with Utah Code Annotated Title 32B, Chapter 8b, Hotel
License Act, and corresponding City liquor license.
     "Alcoholic Beverage, Liquor Warehouse" means an entity operating under and holding the required
Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control license issued in accordance with Utah Code Annotated Title 32B,
Chapter 12, Liquor Warehousing License Act, and corresponding City liquor license.
      "Alcoholic Beverage, Local Industry Representative" means an entity operating under and holding the
required Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control license issued in accordance with Utah Code Annotated Title
32B, Chapter 11, Part 6, Local Industry Representative License Act, and corresponding City liquor license.
     "Alcoholic Beverage, Manufacturer" means an entity operating under and holding the required (a)
Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control license issued in accordance with Utah Code Annotated Title 32B:
     1.    Chapter 11, Part 3, Winery Manufacturing License,
     2.    Chapter 11, Part 4, Distillery Manufacturing License, or

                                                     Page 4 of 29
      3.    Chapter 11, Part 5, Brewery Manufacturing License; and
(b) Corresponding City liquor license.
     "Alcoholic Beverage, Off-Premise Beer" means an entity operating under and holding the required
Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control license issued in accordance with Utah Code Annotated Title 32B,
Chapter 7, Off-Premise Beer Retailer Act, and corresponding City beer license, and only as a component of: (1) a
Convenience Store with Fuel Pumps,; (2) General Retail,; (3) Neighborhood Retail; or (4) Manufacturer Alcoholic
Beverage Use.
       "Alcoholic Beverage, Package Agency" means an entity other than the state operating a retail liquor location
to sell packaged liquor for consumption off the premises of the package agency under (a) an agreement with the
Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control, as authorized by the Alcoholic Beverage Control Commission in
accordance with Utah Code Annotated Title 32B, Chapter 2, Part 6, Package Agency, and (b) corresponding City
liquor license.
     "Alcoholic Beverage, Reception Center" means an entity operating under and holding the required
Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control license issued in accordance with Utah Code Annotated Title 32B,
Chapter 6, Part 9, Reception Center License, and corresponding City liquor license.
     "Alcoholic Beverage, Restaurant (Beer Only)" means an entity operating under and holding the required
Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control license issued in accordance with Utah Code Annotated Title 32B,
Chapter 6, Part 9, Beer-Only Restaurant License, and corresponding City beer license.
     "Alcoholic Beverage, Restaurant (Limited Service)" means an entity operating under and holding the required
Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control license issued in accordance with Utah Code Annotated Title 32B,
Chapter 6, Part 3, Limited-service Restaurant License, and corresponding City liquor license.
     "Alcoholic Beverage, Restaurant (Full Service)" means an entity operating under and holding the required
Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control license issued in accordance with Utah Code Annotated Title 32B,
Chapter 6, Part 2, Full-service Restaurant License, and corresponding City liquor license.
       "Alcoholic Beverage, Special Use (Educational)" means an entity operating under and holding the required
Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control educational use permit issued in accordance with Utah Code Annotated
Title 32B, Chapter 10, Special Use Permit Act, and corresponding City special-use license.
      "Alcoholic Beverage, Special Use (Industrial/Manufacturing)" means an entity operating under and holding
the required Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control industrial or manufacturing use permit issued in
accordance with Utah Code Annotated Title 32B, Chapter 10, Part 4, Industrial or Manufacturing Use Permit, and
corresponding City special-use license.
       "Alcoholic Beverage, Special Use (Scientific)" means an entity operating under and holding the required
Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control scientific use permit issued in accordance with Utah Code Annotated
Title 32B, Chapter 10, Special Use Permit Act, and corresponding City special-use license.
      "Alcoholic Beverage, Special Use (Religious)" means an entity operating under and holding the required
Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control religious wine use permit issued in accordance with Utah Code
Annotated Title 32B, Chapter 10, Part 6, Religious Use of Alcoholic Products, and corresponding City special-use
license.
      "Alcoholic Beverage, Tavern" means an entity operating under and holding the required Department of
Alcoholic Beverage Control license for a tavern, issued in accordance with Utah Code Annotated Title 32B, Chapter
6, Part 7, On-premise Beer Retailer License, and corresponding City beer license.
      "Alcoholic Beverage, State Liquor Store" means an means a facility established by the Alcoholic Beverage
Control Commission in accordance with Utah Code Annotated Title 32B, Chapter 2, Part 5, State Store, the for the
sale of packaged liquor located on premises owned or leased by the state and operated by a state employee. State
Liquor Store does not include any other Alcoholic Beverage Use.



                                                    Page 5 of 29
      "All-Terrain Vehicle (ATV), Motorcycle, Personal Watercraft (PWC), Snowmobile Sales and Service" means
the indoor sale or lease of any motorized off-road vehicle fifty (50) inches or less in overall width, with a dry weight
of eight hundred (800) pounds or less, or other similarly sized motorized vehicles, not including automobiles,
trucks, trailers, etc. This Use includes the incidental and subordinate service of such motorized off-road vehicles
but does not include any outdoor storage or sales.
       "Alley" means a paved Right-of-Way that provides secondary vehicular access and is not intended for general
traffic circulation.
      "Alteration" means any change or rearrangement in the structural parts or design of a Sign, whether by
extending on a side, by increasing in area or height or in moving from one location or position to another.
Alteration does not include the regular repair or maintenance of a Sign.
      "Amusement Device" means any machine, device, or contrivance, not prohibited or declared unlawful by the
City or the state of Utah, designed or intended to be operated or used for amusement or the playing of a game
upon or in exchange for paying a fee or inserting a coin or token.
      "Animal Boarding/Raising (Farm)" means a business primarily engaged in raising or boarding animals for
profit on a farm.
      "Animal Hospital/Veterinary Office (Small Animal)" means an establishment operated by a licensed
veterinarian, at which small or medium-sized farm animals or household pets are treated within a completely
enclosed Structure. Animal Hospital or Veterinary Office includes the incidental and subordinate boarding of small
animals.
     "Animal Kennel/Day Care, Commercial" means a facility where three (3) or more pet animals, owned by
another person, are temporarily boarded for pay, trade, barter, commission, or remuneration of any sort.
Commercial Animal Kennels do not include zoos, Veterinary Offices, or Animal Hospitals.
      "Antenna" means a transmitting or receiving device used in telecommunications that radiates or captures
radio signals.
      "Antique or Classic Automobile" means an automobile that is at least 25 years old, with enough historical
interest to be collectable and worth preserving or restoring rather than scrapping.
      "Apiary" means a place where beehives are kept and maintained, where bees are raised primarily for honey.
     "Applicant" means a property Owner, or the property Owner's designee, who submits an Application
regarding the property Owner's land.
      "Application" means a submission required by the City to obtain a Land Use Decision. An Application does
not include a Petition to (a) enact, amend, or repeal a Land Use Regulation; or (b) modify the General Plan.
      "Architectural Elements" means the unique details and component parts that, together, form the
architectural style of a Structure.
      "Art Gallery" means a business engaged in the exhibition and sale of artwork. Art Gallery does not include
the sale of art supplies or other raw materials used in the creation of artwork.
      "Art Studio" means a place where artwork is created. An Art Studio includes, but is not limited to, a place to
paint, sculpt and fire clay, or engrave and work metal into artistic forms. An Art Studio does not include a place to
practice or perform Performance Art.
       "Assisted Living Facility" means a residential facility, licensed by the state of Utah, with a home-like setting
that provides an array of coordinated supportive personal, health care services, aides in daily living, social and
recreational services, available twenty-four (24) hours per day, to residents who have been assessed under Utah
Department of Health or Department of Human Services regulations to need any of these services. Assisted Living
Facilities create service plans for residents based on assessment that include:
      1.    Specified services of intermittent nursing care;


                                                      Page 6 of 29
      2.    Administration of medication; or
      3.    Support services promoting the resident's independence and self-sufficiency.
An Assisted Living Facility does not include Adult Daycare or Homeless Shelter.
      "ATM, Kiosk, Vending Machine (Self-Service, Interactive, Outdoors)" means any unattended self-service
device that performs services upon a required payment or command by the user. Such services include but are not
limited to banking or financial functions at a location remote from the controlling Financial Institution; dispensing
anything of value including food, beverage, goods, wares, merchandise, or services; or posting of notices or
advertisements.
     "Auction House" means a Structure or area within a Building used for the public sale of goods, wares,
merchandise, livestock, or equipment to the highest bidder.
      "Auto, Light Truck, RV, Boat, Trailer Dealerships (Sale, Lease, or Rent)" means a business engaged in the sale,
lease, or rental of automobiles, light trucks, vans, RVs, boats, or trailers and includes incidental parking of such
vehicles, and warranty repair work and other repair services that is incidental and subordinate to the sale, lease, or
rental aspect of the business.
      "Auto Auction" means the sale of automobiles though a process in which multiple bidders compete to
acquire a vehicle that is ultimately sold to the person offering the highest price.
      "Auto Body Repair" means a facility for repairing passenger vehicles, light and medium trucks, and other
motor vehicles such as motorcycles, boats, and recreational vehicles. Auto Body Repair includes auto body
painting.
     "Automotive Restoration" means the process of repairing degraded aspects of Antique or Classic
Automobiles to return them to an "authentic" condition.
      "Automotive Service and Repair" means a business engaged in the repair, accessorizing, or maintenance of
motor vehicles, trailers, or recreational vehicles. Automotive Service and Repair does not include Auto Body Repair
or auto dismantling or salvage.
     "Automotive Service Station (Non-Mechanical)" means a business that provides routine maintenance
(windshield, tire, fluids, etc.) for passenger vehicles, while the customer waits on-site.
      "Aviary" means an enclosure specifically constructed to hold live birds in confinement. Aviary does not
include Urban Poultry.
        "Bail Bonds" means any sole proprietor or entity that: (a) is licensed under Utah Code § 31A-35-404(1) or (2);
(b)(i) is the agent of a surety insurer that sells a bail bond in connection with judicial proceedings; (ii) pledges the
assets of a letter of credit from a Utah depository institution for a bail bond in connection with judicial
proceedings; or (iii) pledges personal or real property, or both, as security for a bail bond in connection with
judicial proceedings; and (c) receives or is promised money or other things of value for a service described in
Subsection b.
      "Bakery, Commercial" means an establishment that makes and sells food products such as bread, cake, or
pastries for large-scale distribution and wholesale.
      "Bakery, Neighborhood" means an establishment that is no more than 2,000 square feet, primarily serving
the surrounding neighborhood, that makes and sells food products such as bread, cake, and pastries.
     "Berm" means an earthen mound designed to provide visual interest on a site, screen undesirable views,
reduce noise, or fulfill other similar purposes.
      "Billboard" means a Detached Sign that is designed or intended to direct attention to a business, product or
service that is not sold, offered, or existing on the property where the Sign is located. A Billboard is an outdoor
advertising Structure as defined by state statutes. The following also apply to Billboards:



                                                      Page 7 of 29
      1.    "Nonconforming Billboard" means an existing Billboard that is located in a zoning district or otherwise
            situated, sized, or constructed in a way that would not be permitted by the provisions of this Title.
      2.    "Embellishment" means an extension of the Billboard resulting in increased square footage as part of
            an artistic design to convey a specific message or advertisement.
      "Biotech/Biolife" means applied science that uses living organisms and their derivatives to produce products
and processes. Biotech/Biolife uses are conducted in a controlled office/lab setting. Biotech/Biolife does not
include any business engaged in manufacturing, processing, or packaging alcohol, pharmaceutical drugs, or any
Cannabis, or tobacco products.
      "Block" means the aggregate of Lots, Parcels, and Right-of-Ways, other than Alleys or lanes, bounded on all
sides by Streets.
       "Blood/Plasma Donation Center" means an appointment only facility, that is not accessory to a Medical
Clinic, where blood and/or plasma is donated or sold, and then distributed for use in medical or other similar
products.
      "Buffer" means an open space, Landscaped Area, fence, wall, Berm, or any combination thereof used to
physically separate or screen one Use or property from another so as to visually shield or block noise, lights, or
other nuisances.
      "Build-to Standard" means the area of a Lot in which the Primary Façade of the Main Building must be
located and is parallel to the Front or Corner Property Line. The Build-To Standard defines the area in which the
locations of Building fronts can vary within a specified range.
     "Buildable Area" means the area of a Lot—excluding wetlands, steep slopes, and easements—available for
construction after the minimum Yard, parking, and open space requirements of this Title have been met.
      "Building" means any Structure having a roof supported by columns or walls, for the occupancy or enclosure
of persons, animals, or chattel.
      "Building, Elevation" means the entire wall surface on one side of a Building, measured as the full horizontal
distance of a Façade wall from Grade to the underside of an overhanging eave or cornice.
      “Building Footprint” means the perimeter of a building at the outer edge of the outside walls of the building,
including cantilevered portions of a building.
      "Building Height " means the vertical distance of a Structure measured from the average of the midpoint of
the two (2) tallest elevations, as measured from adjacent Grade to the highest point of the coping of a flat roof,
the deck line of a mansard roof, or the midpoint between ridge and eaves of a sloped roof.
      "Building, Historic" means any Building or Structure that is historically or architecturally significant according
to the requirements found in Section 17.03.160.
     "Building, Main or Primary" means the principal Building, or one of the principal Buildings on a Lot, that
contains the Primary Use on the Lot.
     "Building Line" means the line circumscribing the Buildable Area of a Lot in a vertical plane that intersects the
ground and the heavens.
     "Building Permit" means a permit issued by the City's Community Development Department authorizing
Construction Activity on a Property or Lot.
      “Canopy Structures” means all structures, canopies, temporary carports, membrane structures or other
canopies that are temporary coverings of plastic, cloth, nylon, or other similar materials supported by a frame,
including, but not limited to, prefabricated canopies available from retail outlets.
      “Carport” means a roofed Structure enclosed on not more than three sides and providing space for the
parking of motor vehicles.



                                                      Page 8 of 29
     "Car Wash" means a Building used for washing and cleaning motor vehicles and other light duty equipment.
Car Wash includes motor vehicle and other light equipment interior detailing services.
      "Change of Use, Building/Fire" means where the current International Building Code (IBC) or International
Fire Code (IFC) required a greater degree of safety, accessibility, structural strength, fire protection, means of
egress, ventilation or sanitation than is existing in the current building or structure.
     "Change of Use, Zoning" means that change of one land use category to another as shown in the Land Use
Matrix.
      "Child Care" means the provision, day or night, of supplemental parental care, instruction and supervision for
a non-related child or children, on a regular basis, and for less than 24 hours a day. Child Care does not include
babysitting services on a casual, non-recurring nature or in the child's home, nor cooperative, reciprocal child care
by a group of parents in their respective domiciles.
      1.    "Child Care, In-Home Babysitting" means the provision of child care for eight (8) or fewer children
            within a Dwelling or within a commercial Building outside of residential zoning districts.
      2.    "Child Care, Family" means the provision of child care for up to eight (8) children, including the
            provider's children who are under the age of 18, within the provider's primary residence.
     "Child Care Center" means a Building, including outside play areas, used for the provision of Child Care for
more than four (4) children for less than 24 hours a day, that is not a primary residence.
      "City" means South Salt Lake City.
      "City Building" means any Building or space within a Building that is owned or operated by the City.
      "City Council" means the legislative body of the South Salt Lake City government.
      "Clear View Area" means that portion of a Corner Lot lying within a triangular area formed by a diagonal line
connecting lines located at the curb line 30 feet (30') from the projected intersection of such curb lines. Where no
curb exists, the Clear View Area shall include that portion of a Corner Lot lying within a triangular area formed by a
diagonal line connecting lines located at the Property Line 20 feet (20') from the intersection of said Property Line.
Where Property Lines of adjacent properties extend into the Right-of-Way, the calculations shall be made from the
edge of the improved Right-of-Way for a distance of 30 feet (30').
      "Code" means the City of South Salt Lake Municipal Code.
      "Collocation" means locating a wireless communications facility on an existing structure, tower, or Building in
a manner that precludes the need for that wireless communications facility to be located on a freestanding
Structure of its own.
      "Commercial Repair Services" means a business primarily engaged in the provision of repair services to
individuals, households, and/or other businesses, but excluding automotive and equipment repair.
     "Common Wall" means a dividing partition between two (2) adjoining Buildings that is shared by the
occupants of each residence or business. Also known as a "party wall."
     "Community Garden" means an area of land managed and maintained by an identifiable group of community
members used to grow and harvest food crop, for personal or group use. Generally operated as not for profit. A
Community Garden does not include any business engaged in manufacturing, processing, or packaging alcohol,
pharmaceutical drugs, or any Cannabis products.
      "Community Location", for the purposes of compliance with state law regulating Tobacco Specialty Retail
establishments, means a:
      1.    public or private kindergarten, Elementary, middle, junior high, or high School;
      2.    licensed Child Care facility or Preschool;
      3.    trade or Technical school;


                                                         Page 9 of 29
      4.    Place of Worship;
      5.    public Library;
      6.    public playground;
      7.    public park;
      8.    youth center or other space used primarily for youth-oriented activities;
      9.    public Recreational Center;
      10.   public arcade; or
      11.   for a new license issued on or after July 1, 2018, a homeless shelter.
      "Compatible" or "Compatibility" means the characteristics of different Uses or designs that integrate with
and relate to one another to maintain and/or enhance the context of a surrounding area or neighborhood.
Elements affecting Compatibility include, but are not limited to, height, Scale, mass and bulk of Building,
pedestrian and vehicular circulation, parking, Landscaping and architecture, topography, environmentally sensitive
Areas, and Building patterns.
         “Cosmetology” means a business that primarily provides hair coloring or trimming services for a fee.
Cosmetology may perform other personal hygiene related services such as manicures, pedicures, or make-up
application. It may also include dry styling of hair. Cosmetology does not include any massage related services or
a Day Spa.
      "Construction Activity" means (a) all grading, excavation, construction, grubbing, mining, or other
Development that materially disturbs or changes the natural vegetation, Grade, or existing Structure; or (b) the act
of adding an addition to an existing Structure, or the erection of a new principal or Accessory Structure on a Lot or
Property.
      "Condominium" means the ownership of a single unit in a multi-unit project together with an undivided
interest in the common areas and facilities of the property.
      "Construction Codes" means the nationally recognized Construction Codes adopted by the state of Utah.
      "Contributory Structure" means a Structure that was built within the historic period (50 years or older),
retains most of its original appearance without major changes to the structure, is eligible for the National Register
because of architectural significance, and is deemed to contribute to the Historic and Landmark district by the
Historic and Landmark Commission.
     "Convenience Store with Fuel Pumps" means a business that primarily sells petroleum products to
consumers as well as incidental and subordinate sales of vehicle-related products, tobacco products, alcohol, food,
and/or beverages.
      "Courtyard" means an outdoor area enclosed by a Building on at least two (2) sides and open to the sky.
      "Coverage" means that percentage of the Parcel or Lot Area covered by the Building. This term can also be
referred to as "Building Coverage."
      "Crime Prevention Through Environmental Design (CPTED)" means the set of design principles for creating
safer built environments by incorporating natural surveillance, access control, territorial reinforcement, a sense of
ownership, management, and maintenance.
     "Crematory/Embalming Facility" means a business, properly licensed by the state, that is devoted to
cremation and/or embalming of the dead, but does not include facilities for burial, internment, body viewing, or
funeral services.
      "Day Spa" means a business that provides at least four (4) distinct therapeutic and/or personal grooming
services—performed by a state licensed barber, cosmetologist, electrologist, esthetician, nail technician, massage
therapist, or acupuncturist—and does not provide any service for which a state license is not required.


                                                     Page 10 of 29
     "Day Treatment Center" means a state licensed outpatient treatment center that provides care to four (4) or
more persons who are unrelated to the Owner or provider and have emotional, psychological, physical, or
behavioral dysfunctions, impairments, or chemical dependencies for fewer than 24 hours a day. A Day Treatment
Center does not include Adult Day Care or a Homeless Shelter.
     "Dedication/Dedicated" means the intentional transfer of land by the Owner to the City for public Use
and/or ownership.
     "Density" means the intensity or number of non-residential and Residential Uses expressed in terms of unit
equivalents per acre or Lot or units per acre. Density is a function of both the number and type of Dwelling Units
and/or non-residential units and the land area.
          "Development" means any Building activity or clearing of land as an adjunct of construction.
          "Drive Aisle" means the area within a Parking Lot, garage, or Structure providing access to and from Parking
Stalls.
     "Drive-up Window" means a Building opening, including windows, doors, or mechanical devices, through
which the occupants of a motor vehicle receive or obtain a product or service.
     "Dry Cleaning/Laundromat" means a business that launders or dry cleans garments, draperies, etc., that are
dropped off directly by the customer, or a business where articles are dropped off, sorted, and picked up, but not
where laundering or dry cleaning occurs.
          "Dwelling" means any Building, or portion thereof, that is used for long-term Residential Use.
      "Dwelling, Employee Housing" means a Dwelling Unit, located within a mixed-use Structure that shall be
available for long term lease for employees of the business located within the same mixed-use Structure and
contains a shared kitchen/dining area and shared restroom/shower facilities for up to four individuals per Dwelling
Unit. Dwelling, Employee Housing is for employees only and shall not be leased to individuals not employed in the
business located within the same mixed-use Structure. Dwelling, Employee Housing does not include short-term
rentals.
      "Dwelling, Live/Work" and "Live/Work" means an integrated Dwelling Unit and workspace within the
Townhome Overlay Zone, designed to accommodate joint residential occupancy and work activity, and that is
occupied and utilized by the person or Family residing in the attached Dwelling Unit. A Live/Work Dwelling
incorporates the Residential Use above the attached workspace. A Live/Work Dwelling does not include any
workspace used for Massage Therapy.
      "Dwelling, Multi-Family" and "Multi-Family" means a Building containing fifty (50) or more independent and
individual Dwelling Units, or equivalent residential units, including units that are located one over another.
     “Dwelling, Primary” means the principal Building, or one of the principal Buildings on a Lot, that contains the
Primary Use on the Lot.
     "Dwelling, Single-Family" and "Single-Family" means a Building containing one Dwelling Unit occupied by one
Family that is not attached to any other Dwelling and is surrounded by open space or Yards.
      "Dwelling, Townhome" and "Townhome" means a Dwelling Unit, located on its own Lot or a Condominium,
that shares one or more Common Walls with one or more Dwelling Units. Townhome Dwellings are individually
owned and do not share common floor/ceilings with other Dwelling Units. A Townhome Structure may include a
ground floor commercial Use below the Dwelling Unit if such commercial Use is both allowed in the base zone and
is specifically addressed in an approved Development Agreement.
      "Dwelling Unit" means a Building or portion thereof, with sleeping and kitchen facilities for the exclusive Use
of up to four (4) unrelated persons or one (1) Family. A Dwelling Unit does not include a Hotel, Motel, Lodge,
Nursing Home, or Homeless Shelter.
     “Dwelling Unit, Accessory” (“ADU”) means an additional, self-contained housing unit that is secondary to the
Primary Dwelling including Internal ADUs and External ADUs.


                                                        Page 11 of 29
      "Dwelling Unit, Internal Accessory” means an ADU created:
      1. Within a Primary Dwelling;
      2. Within the footprint of the Primary Dwelling at the time the Internal ADU is created; and
      3. For the purpose of offering a long-term rental of 30 consecutive days or longer.
      “Dwelling Unit, External Accessory” means an ADU that is not part of the Primary Dwelling’s footprint, or
sharing a common wall.
      "Education, After School (Children)" means developmental or educational programs for children that occur
outside the typical school day.
     "Education, Elementary or Secondary" means any school, that meets state requirements for Elementary or
Secondary Education.
       "Education, Higher (Public)" means a public institution for higher learning—beyond high school—that grants
associate's or bachelor's degrees. Public Higher Education includes accredited Community Colleges that grant
Certificates of Completion in business or technical fields.
      "Education, Preschool" means a school for the instruction of children prior to entrance into kindergarten.
     "Education, Technical" means a secondary or higher education facility that primarily teaches skills that
prepare students for jobs in a trade. Technical Education includes trade and vocational schools.
     "Electronic Cigarette Product" means the same as that term is defined in UCA Section 76-10-101, and as may
be amended.
       "Electronic Message Center" means a mechanism or device that uses a combination of lights or lighted
panels that are controlled electronically to produce words, symbols, or messages that may flash, travel, or
scintillate within a given panel area.
       "Employment Agency/Temporary Staffing" means a commercial organization that finds jobs for people
seeking them, finds people to fill jobs that are open, or supplies employees to other businesses on a temporary
basis.
      "Equestrian Facility" means a commercial horse, donkey, or mule facility consisting of detached Buildings
designed and used to care for such animals. An Equestrian Facility includes horse ranches, boarding stables, riding
schools, and exhibition facilities.
      "Equipment Sales, Service, and Rental (Heavy and Farm)" means a business primarily engaged in the sale or
rental of tools, trucks, tractors, construction equipment, agricultural implements, and similar industrial equipment.
Equipment Sales, Service, and Rental includes accessory storage, maintenance, and service for such equipment.
       "Escort Service" means any person who furnishes or arranges for an escort to accompany another individual
for: (a) companionship; and (b)(i) a salary; (ii) a fee; (iii) a commission; (iv) for hire; (v) for profit; or (vi) any amount
similar to an amount listed in this Title.
     "Façade" means that portion of any exterior elevation of a Structure extending from Grade to the top of the
parapet, wall, or eaves, and extending the entire width of the Structure's elevations.
     "Façade, Distinctly Different Primary" means a Primary Façade that materially differs from other Primary
Façades in the same Subdivision. Distinctly Different Primary Façades do not include mirror images.
      "Façade, Primary" means the Façade parallel to the Street the Building derives its Street address from and
includes the primary entrance for the Building.
     "Family" means (a) one (1) person living alone or two (2) or more persons related by blood, marriage, or
adoption, according to the laws of the state of Utah; or (b) a group not to exceed four (4) unrelated persons living
together as a single housekeeping unit for which a lawfully located off-Street Parking Stall is provided for each
person.


                                                        Page 12 of 29
     "Farmers Market" means the sale of fresh agricultural products directly to the consumer at an open-air
market sponsored by the City of South Salt Lake.
      "Final Grading" means the last stage of grading soil or gravel prior to Landscaping, the installation of concrete
or bituminous paving, or other required final surfacing material.
       "Financial Institution" means the provision of financial or banking services to consumers or clients. Financial
Institution does not include a Non-Depository Institution such as: Check Cashing, Title Loan, Payday Loan,
Pawnshop, or Precious Metal Recycling.
        "Fitness Center" means a commercial establishment providing space within a Building, or a portion thereof,
for fitness classes, martial arts classes or competition, dance classes, exercise equipment, game courts, swimming
facilities, saunas, showers, and lockers.
      "Floor Area" means the sum of the gross horizontal areas of each Story of a Building or Buildings, measured
from the exterior faces of the exterior walls or from the centerline of Common Walls. Basements, interior
balconies and mezzanines, elevator shafts, stairwells, and enclosed Porches are included in Floor Area. Also
referred to as "Gross Floor Area."
     "Food Processing (Large-Scale)" means an establishment containing a full commercial kitchen, where food is
processed or otherwise prepared for eventual human consumption.
     "Food Processing (Small-Scale)" means an establishment containing a full commercial kitchen, where food is
processed or otherwise prepared for human consumption, within a facility 3,000 square feet or less in size.
       "Food Truck/Food Trailer " means a fully enclosed food service establishment on a motor vehicle or on a
trailer that a motor vehicle pulls to transport and from which a Food Truck Vendor, standing within the frame of
the vehicle, prepares, cooks, sells, or serves food or beverages for immediate human consumption.
     "Food Truck Park " means three (3) or more Food Trucks or Trailers that congregate at an established private
property location to offer food or beverages for sale to the public.
      "Food Truck/Food Trailer Vendor" means a person who prepares, sells, cooks, or serves food or beverages
for immediate human consumption from a Food Truck or Trailer.
     "Frontage" means that portion of a Lot abutting a Right-of-Way that provides access to the Lot and is
ordinarily regarded as the front of the Lot.
      "Funeral/Mortuary Home" means a state licensed establishment for the storage of dead human bodies prior
to autopsy, burial, cremation, or release to survivors. A Funeral/Mortuary Home also includes the arrangement
and management of funerals and may include accessory caretaker facilities.
      "Garage, Attached" means a Building or Structure, or portion thereof, used or designed to be used for the
parking and storage of motor vehicles that shares a Common Wall with the Primary Structure and is incidental and
subordinate to the Primary Use.
      "Garage, Detached" means a detached Structure that is on the same Lot and incidental and subordinate to a
Primary Building or Primary Use, has legal vehicular access from a public Right-of-Way, and is used and designed
for the parking and storage of vehicles.
      "Garage, Front Loading" means a Building designed and used for parking vehicles, that is accessed from the
front of the Building via a public or private Right-of-Way.
      "Garage, Rear Loading" means a Building designed and used for parking vehicles, that is accessed from the
rear of the Building from a Private Street, Alley, or driveway.
      "Good Cause" means providing positive benefits and mitigating negative impacts, determined on a case by
case basis to include such things as: providing public amenities and benefits, resolving existing issues and non-
conformities, addressing issues related to Density, promoting excellent and sustainable design, utilizing best
planning and design practices, preserving the character of the neighborhood and of the City and furthering the
health, safety, and welfare of the South Salt Lake community.

                                                     Page 13 of 29
      "Grade" means (a) the lowest point of elevation of the finished surface of the ground, paving, or sidewalk
between the Building and the Property Line; or (b) when the Property Line is more than five (5) feet from the
Building, between the Building and a line five (5) feet from the Building.
     "Grooming Services (Pets)" means a commercial facility where domestic animals are bathed, clipped, or
brushed for the purpose of enhancing their aesthetic value or health.
       "Group Home" an establishment that provides residence to individuals with prolonged care needs, is located
in a residential area, maintains the residential character of the area, is properly licensed by the state and the City
and provides an on-site caregiver for purposes of providing medical and physical assistance due to age and/or
disability of the tenant(s). A Group Home does not include a Homeless Shelter or a treatment facility for persons
who are actively abusing drugs.
     "Guaranty" means a security to ensure completion of work other than public Landscaping and Infrastructure
Improvements.
      "Hard Surface" means a surface covered with concrete, brick, asphalt, or other Impervious Material.
       "Haunted House" means a City licensed business that is advertised to the public as a Haunted House, and for
a fee, patrons are directed through a Building, tent, or other similar Structure that contains Halloween-related
displays, acts, exhibits, live performances, or other attractions intended to entertain or amuse patrons. A Haunted
House does not include a Sexually Oriented Business.
      "Historic Building" means any Building listed in the National Register of Historic Places, the Utah State
Register of Historic Sites, or designated as a Historic Building by the City Council.
      "Historic and Landmark Commission" means the Planning Commission.
      "Home Craft Production" means the production of items, materials, or wares, manufactured in a Dwelling or
Accessory Structure that does not create an adverse impact on the surrounding neighborhood. Home Craft
Production includes but is not limited to: laser engraving, etching and cutting, 3D printing, wood and metal work,
jewelry making, textile arts, ceramics, light furniture assembly, and small Cottage Food Production in a Dwelling as
defined by the state of Utah and subject to approval by the Salt Lake County Health Department.
     "Home Occupation, Category I" means any business carried on entirely within a Dwelling by occupants of
such Dwelling that is clearly incidental and secondary to the Residential Use of the Dwelling, has no outside
impacts on the neighborhood in which it is located, and does not change the character of the Dwelling or the
neighborhood in which it is located. Home Occupation, Category I does not involve any clients/customers going to
the Dwelling.
     "Home Occupation, Category II" means any business carried on entirely within a Dwelling by occupants of
such Dwelling that is clearly incidental and secondary to the Residential Use of the Dwelling, has no outside
impacts on the neighborhood in which it is located, and does not change the character of the Dwelling or the
neighborhood in which it is located. Home Occupation, Category II includes clients/customers going to the
Dwelling.
       "Homeless Shelter" means a facility that is professionally designed, constructed, and managed to safely
provide homeless individuals temporary overnight accommodation, on a site selected by and funded through the
Utah Homeless Coordinating Committee, with the concurrence of the housing and community development
division of the Department of Workforce Services. A Homeless Shelter is not Adult Day Care or Day Treatment.
      "Horticulture/Produce Sales" means the commercial production of fruits, vegetables, flowers, nursery stock,
or cultured sod.
     "Hospital, Specialty" means a business, licensed by the state of Utah, that meets the state definitions for
Rehabilitation, Long-Term Acute Care, Orthopedic, or Critical Access Specialty Hospitals.
      "Hotel" means a Building containing 15 or more sleeping rooms, each accessed from within the Building, for
the occupancy of guests on a nightly basis for a fee. A Hotel is not a Homeless Shelter.


                                                     Page 14 of 29
     "Hotel, Extended-Stay" means a Building containing 15 or more sleeping rooms, each accessed from within
the Building, for the occupancy of guests on a nightly basis for a fee that also contain kitchen facilities for food
preparation including, but not limited to, refrigerators, stoves, and ovens. Extended Stay Hotel does not include a
Motel or a Homeless Shelter.
      "Impervious Surface" means concrete or asphalt.
     "Improvement Completion Assurance" means a cash deposit, or other financially equivalent security to
ensure the proper completion of public Landscaping or an Infrastructure Improvement required as a condition
precedent to: (a) recording a Subdivision Plat; or (b) Development of a commercial, industrial, Mixed-Use,
Condominium, or Multi-Family Dwelling project.
      "Improvement Warranty" means an Applicant's unconditional warranty that the Applicant's installed and
accepted Landscaping or Infrastructure Improvement: (a) complies with the municipality's written standards for
design, materials, and workmanship; and (b) will not fail in any material respect, as a result of poor workmanship
or materials, within the Improvement Warranty Period.
      "Improvement Warranty Period" means a period: (a) no later than one year after the City's acceptance of
required Landscaping; or (b) no later than one year after the City's acceptance of required infrastructure, unless
the City: (i) determines for Good Cause that a one-year period would be inadequate to protect the public health,
safety, and welfare; and (ii) has substantial evidence, on record: (A) of prior poor performance by the Applicant; or
(B) that the area upon which the infrastructure will be constructed contains suspect soil and the City has not
otherwise required the Applicant to mitigate the suspect soil.
      "Impound and Tow Lot" means a Parcel of land or a Structure that is used for the temporary (less than 30
days) storage of motor vehicles awaiting insurance adjustment, transport to a repair shop, or to be claimed by
titleholders or their agents. Impound and Tow Lot does not include the permanent storage of motor vehicles.
       "Infrastructure Completion Agreement" means an agreement between the City and a property Owner to
install improvements secured by a cash deposit or another financial-equivalent approved method, in an amount
corresponding to the City's estimate to install required Landscaping and Infrastructure Improvements.
      "Infrastructure Improvement" means permanent infrastructure that an Applicant must install: (a) pursuant to
published installation and inspection specifications for Public Improvements; and (b) as a condition of: (i) recording
a Subdivision Plat; or (ii) Development of a commercial, industrial, Mixed-Use, Condominium, or Multi-Family
Dwelling project.
     "Jail" means a state licensed facility for judicially required detention or incarceration of people, where
inmates and detainees are under 24-hour supervision by professionals, except when on approved leave.
      "Juvenile Detention Facility" means a state operated facility, for judicially required detention of delinquent
juveniles.
      "Landscaping" means the finishing and adornment of unpaved Yard areas. Landscaping includes any
combination of living elements such as grass, trees, shrubs, and flowers, that are generally not considered to be
weeds or noxious plants. Landscaping may also include rocks, water features, benches, Berms, or other similar
structural features that create an attractive and pleasing environment.
     "Landscape Plan" means a plan clearly and accurately depicting the proposed location, type, and size of new
and existing trees, shrubs, and ground cover to be planted on the site and a complete water efficient irrigation
system plan, pursuant to Chapter 17.06 of the Municipal Code.
      "Landscaped Area" means the entire Lot or Parcel, less the Building footprint, driveways, non-irrigated
portions of Parking Lots, hardscape (such as decks and patios), and other Impervious Surfaces. Water features are
included in the meaning of Landscaped Area.
     "Land Use Decision" means an administrative decision of a land use authority regarding: (a) a Land Use
Permit; (b) an Application; or (c) the enforcement of a Land Use Regulation, Land Use Permit, or Development
agreement.


                                                     Page 15 of 29
     "Land Use Decision, Final" means the written decision of the appeal authority regarding a Land Use Decision.
      "Land Use Map" means the map adopted by the City Council identifying the location of all land use districts
within the City.
      "Land Use Matrix" means the table of land use categories and land use districts located within Chapter 17.03
of the Municipal Code.
     "Land Use Permit" means a permit issued by the land use authority.
      "Land Use Regulation" means an ordinance, law, map, resolution, specification, fee, or rule, in any provision
of the South Salt Lake Municipal Code, that governs the Use or Development of land, including the adoption or
amendment of a Land Use Map.
      "Lattice Tower" means a self-supporting, multi-sided, open steel frame Structure used to support
telecommunications equipment.
     "Library" means a public, nonprofit Building constructed to house literary, musical, artistic, or reference
materials.
      "Live Plant Material" means any combination of living elements such as turf grass, ornamental grass, shrubs,
trees, and flowers that are generally not considered to be weeds or noxious plants.
     "Lot" means a tract of land described as such in a recorded Subdivision Plat.
     "Lot Area" means the total area contained within a Lot, typically expressed in square feet or acres.
      "Lot, Corner" means a Lot situated on two (2) or more improved public or Private Streets, the interior angle
of such intersection not exceeding 135 degrees (135°).
      "Lot Depth" means the minimum distance measured from the Front Property Line to the Rear Property Line
of the same Lot.
     "Lot, Interior" means a Lot that fronts on a Street, other than a Corner Lot.
     "Lot Line" means any line defining the boundaries of a Lot.
      "Lot Line Adjustment" means a relocation of a Lot Line boundary between adjoining Lots or Parcels, whether
or not the Lots are located in the same Subdivision, in accordance with UCA § 10-9a-608, with the consent of the
Owners of record. A Lot Line Adjustment does not authorize the relocation of a boundary line that:
     1.    Creates an additional Lot; or
     2.    Constitutes a Subdivision.
      "Lot, Through/Double Frontage" means an Interior Lot with Frontage on two (2) approximately parallel
public or private Rights-of-Way, excluding an Alley.
     "Low Power Radio Services Facility" means an unmanned Structure which consists of equipment used
primarily for the transmission, reception, or transfer of voice or data through radio wave or wireless transmissions.
      "Maintenance Facility, Vehicle/Transit" means any Building, premises, or land upon which a unit of
government: (a) services or maintains motor vehicles or transit equipment; or (b) stores vehicles or equipment
used for servicing off-site facilities or infrastructure.
      "Manufactured Home" means a transportable, factory-built Dwelling Unit constructed on or after June 15,
1976, in one or more sections, which: (a) in the traveling mode, is eight feet or more in width or 40 feet or more in
length, or when erected on site, is at least 400 square feet; and (b) is designed to be used as a Dwelling with a
permanent foundation, connected to the required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning,
and electrical systems.




                                                    Page 16 of 29
      "Manufactured Home Park" means any area or tract of land used or designed to accommodate two (2) or
more Manufactured or Mobile Homes, for Dwelling or sleeping purposes, regardless of whether a fee is paid for
such accommodation.
      "Manufacturing, Major" means the manufacturing, fabrication, processing, or assembly of materials in a raw
form in a manner that creates greater than usual amounts of smoke, gas, odor, dust, sound, or other objectionable
influences that might be obnoxious to persons conducting business on-site or on an adjacent site. Major
Manufacturing does not include any business engaged in manufacturing, processing, or packaging alcohol,
pharmaceutical drugs, or any Cannabis, or tobacco products.
      "Manufacturing, Minor" means any business engaged in research and development, manufacturing,
processing, fabrication, packaging, or assembly of goods that do not create excessive amounts of smoke, gas, odor,
dust, sound, or other objectionable influences that might be obnoxious to persons conducting business on site or
on an adjacent site. Minor Manufacturing does not include any business engaged in manufacturing, processing, or
packaging alcohol, pharmaceutical drugs, or any Cannabis, or tobacco products.
     "Massage Therapy" means a business, located within a licensed Medical Office, where state licensed
massage therapists, physical therapists, medical doctors, or chiropractors, perform nonmedical and nonsurgical
manipulative exercises on the muscle or tissue of the human body for other than cosmetic or beautifying purposes.
Massage Therapy does not include Reiki.
     "Master Plan" means the Site Plan, elevations, and regulations approved by the City for a specific Master
Planned Mixed-Use Development.
      "Material, Primary" means any material that occupies at least 60 percent of the exterior Façade(s) of a
Building or Structure.
      "Material, Secondary" means any material that occupies no more than 20 percent of the exterior Façade(s)
of a Building or Structure.
      "Mixed-Use" and "Mixed-Use Development" means a Development project that includes a Residential Use
combined with one or more of the following Uses: Retail, service, or office; that integrates critical massing of
physical and functional components into a coherent plan that promotes walkability through uninterrupted
pedestrian connections; and reduces traffic and parking impacts.
      "Mobile Home" means a factory assembled structure or structures equipped with the necessary service
connections and made so as to be readily movable as a unit or units on its (theirs) own running gear and designed
to be used as a dwelling unit(s) without a permanent foundation. A modular home transported on wheels to its
foundation shall be considered a Mobile Home.
     "Monopole" means a single, self-supporting, cylindrical pole that acts as the support Structure for Antennae.
      "Monopole, Major" means a Monopole with Antennae or Antenna support Structures, which exceed two
feet (2') in width, but not more than 15 feet in width, and with a maximum vertical length of eight feet (8'), viewed
from the same elevation as the Antennae and Antenna support Structure.




                                                    Page 17 of 29
      "Monopole, Minor" means a Monopole with Antennae and Antenna support Structures, which do not exceed
two feet (2') in width and ten feet (10') in vertical length, viewed from the same elevation as the Antennae and
Antenna support Structure.




       "Motel" means a Building or series of Buildings in which temporary, over-night accommodation is offered for
a fee, that provides direct independent access to, and adjoining parking for, each rental unit.
     "Movie Studio/Sound Stage" means a Building primarily used for motion picture, television, video, sound,
computer, and other communications media production, including the construction and use of indoor sets. A
Movie Studio or Sound Stage does not include a Sexually Oriented Business.
      "Museum" means a Building or group of Buildings that house objects of cultural, historical, artistic, or
scientific interest.
       "Nature Center" means an establishment designed expressly for and used principally to educate and connect
visitors with the natural environment.



                                                    Page 18 of 29
       "Noncomplying Structure" means a Structure that legally existed before its current land use designation and
because of one or more subsequent Land Use Regulation changes, does not conform to Setback, height
restrictions, or other regulations, excluding those regulations that govern the Use of land.
     "Nonconforming Use" means a Use of land that: (a) legally existed before its current land use designation; (b)
has been maintained continuously since the time the Land Use Regulations governing the land changed; and (c)
because of one or more subsequent Land Use Regulations changes, does not conform to the regulations that now
govern the Use of land.
      "Non-Contributory Structure" means a Structure that is not contributing or is ineligible for registry to the
Historic and Landmark District, as deemed by the Historic and Landmark Commission, or as a result of a historic
survey by a certified architectural historian. Non-Contributory Structure status is typically due to the Structure not
being built during the historic period (50 years or older), having major alterations or additions, and/or the
Structure no longer retains historic integrity.
       "Non-Depository Institution" means a business, other than a Financial Institution, that is registered by the
state of Utah pursuant to the Check Cashing and Title Lending Registration Act. Included in Non-Depository
Institutions:
      1.    "Check Cashing Business" means a person or business that, for compensation, engages in cashing a
            check for consideration or extending a Deferred Deposit Loan. Check Cashing does not include
            depository institutions, as defined by the state of Utah, Financial Institutions, or a Retail seller engaged
            primarily in the business of selling goods or services to Retail buyers that cash checks or issue money
            orders for a minimum flat fee not exceeding one percent of the check or one dollar ($1.00) as a service
            fee that is incidental to its main purpose or business.
      2.    "Payday Loan Business" means an establishment providing loans to individuals in exchange for
            personal checks or assignment of wages as collateral.
      3.    "Title Loan Business" means an establishment providing short-term loans to individuals in exchange for
            the title of a motor vehicle, motor home, or other motor vehicle as collateral.
      4.    "Deferred Deposit Loans" means a business that conducts transactions where a person presents to a
            check casher a check written on that person's account or provides written or electronic authorization
            to a check casher to affect a debit from that person's account using an electronic payment and the
            check casher provides the maker an amount of money that is equal to the face value of the check or
            the amount of the debit less any fee or interest charged for the transaction and agrees not to cash the
            check or process the debit until a specific date.
      "Nursery, Commercial" means a Business that grows and sells trees, shrubs, flowers, ground cover, and other
similar plants. A Commercial Nursery also includes the sale of related products, including fertilizers, mulch, and
landscape decoration. A Commercial Nursery does not include growing or selling federally controlled substances.
      "Nursing Home" means a long-term, intermediate care/nursing facility, licensed by the State of Utah, for the
care of individuals who due to illness, advanced age, disability, or impairment require assistance and/or
supervision on a 24 hour per day basis. A Nursing Home includes skilled nursing facilities, elderly care facilities,
convalescent homes, and rest homes. A Nursing Home does not include: Adult Daycare or a Homeless Shelter.
      "Occupiable Space" means an enclosed space in which individuals congregate for amusement, education,
habitation, or similar purposes, or in which the occupants are engaged in labor.
      "Office, Medical, Dental, Health Care" means a Building, or portion thereof containing, offices and facilities
for providing medical, dental, or psychiatric services supervised by a licensed M.D./D.O., D.C., D.D.S./D.M.D.,
N.D./N.M.D., D.P.T., D.P.M., NP, PA, O.D, ACMHC, CMHC, AMFT, or LMFT for outpatients only. A Medical or Dental
Health Care Office does not include overnight care of patients.
     "Office, Professional" means a Building or portion thereof that houses firms or organizations providing
professional services to individuals and businesses, where a majority of client contact occurs at the office including


                                                     Page 19 of 29
advertising, accounting, architecture, law, insurance, real estate, investment, engineering, and computer services.
A Professional Office does not include technical, medical, or dental offices.
     "Open Space, Common" means an area of land, including Landscaping, outdoor recreation areas, club
houses, private roads, and sidewalks, within a Lot or Parcel that is commonly owned and used by the residents and
guests of the Development.
      "Open Space, Public" means an area of land or water that may be used by the public for passive or active
recreation, conservation, Landscaped Areas, preserves of the natural environment, or scenic land.
        "Open Space, Usable" means an area of land within a Lot or Parcel, that is intended to be used as outdoor
space for the benefit of the Owners or tenants of a Development. Usable Open Space may include Landscaped
Areas, shade structures, play equipment, play courts, landscaped plazas, Accessory Structures, and stormwater
facilities that function as Usable Open Space. Usable Open Space does not include Setbacks, Buffers, Parking,
driveways, or any privately-owned spaces.
     "Overlay District" means an area designated on the Land Use Map, where certain additional requirements or
Uses are added to a base zoning district.
     "Owner" means the property owner of record.
     "Owner Occupied Residential Development" means those Developments wherein each Dwelling Unit is
Subdivided and recorded with a unique tax Parcel identification number.
     "Parcel" means any real property that is not a Lot or Condominium.
       "Parcel Boundary Adjustment" means a recorded agreement between the Owners of adjoining Parcels
adjusting the mutual boundary, either by deed or by a boundary line agreement in accordance with UCA § 57-1-45,
if no additional Parcel is created and:
     1.    None of the property identified in the agreement is Subdivided Land; or
     2.    The adjustment is to the boundaries of a single person's Parcels; and
     3.    Does not mean an adjustment that:
           a.    Creates an additional Parcel; or
           b.    Constitutes a Subdivision.
      "Park and Ride" means an off-Street Parking Lot or Parking Structure, owned and operated by Utah Transit
Authority, the state, or South Salt Lake City, that is designed for parking automobiles, the occupants of which
transfer to public transit to continue their travel. Park and Ride includes Accessory Structures necessary for the
operation of public transit.
      "Park Strip" means the Landscaped Area within a public Right-of-Way located between the back of the Street
curb and the sidewalk, or, in the absence of a sidewalk, located between the back of the Street curb and the
Property Line.
      "Parking Area" means a public or private area, associated with a Building or Structure, that is designed and
used for parking motor vehicles. Driveways, Garages, and Parking Lots are Parking Areas.
       "Parking Lot" means an off-Street, paved area, used for parking more than four (4) automobiles at one time,
that is available for public Use whether free, for compensation, or as an accommodation for clients or customers.
     "Parking, Public" means a Parking Area designated for public use.
     "Parking, Reciprocal Access" means an off-Street Parking Lot that services two or more commercial
properties that share an unobstructed Property Line so that the Parking Areas are accessible to both properties.
     "Parking, Shared" means the Development and Use of Parking Areas for joint Use by two (2) or more
businesses or residents of adjacent properties.


                                                    Page 20 of 29
     "Parking Stall" means a designated spot within a Parking Area for parking one motor vehicle, that meets the
dimensional requirements of this Title.
     "Parking Structure" means a standalone, multi-level Structure designed and used for temporarily parking
motor vehicles.
        "Pawn Broker" means a person or business that engages in the following activities:
        1.   Loans money on one or more deposits of personal property;
        2.   Deals in the purchase, exchange, or possession of personal property on condition of selling the same
             property back again to the pledger or depositor;
        3.   Loans or advances money on personal property by taking chattel mortgage security on the property
             and takes or receives the personal property into his possession, and who sells the unredeemed
             pledges;
        4.   Deals in the purchase, exchange or sale of used or secondhand merchandise or personal property; or
        5.   Engages in a licensed business enterprise as a Pawnshop.
        "Pawnshop" means the physical location or premises where a Pawn Broker conducts business.
      "Permanent Supportive Housing" means long term, community-based housing that also provides supportive
services for homeless persons with disabilities and enables special needs populations to live as independently as
possible in a permanent setting. Permanent Supportive Housing does not include a Homeless Shelter.
        "Petitioner" means a Petition to (a) enact, amend, or repeal a Land Use Regulation; or (b) modify the General
Plan.
     "Pharmacy" means any place where a state licensed pharmacist (a) dispenses drugs, (b) provides
pharmaceutical care, or (c) processes or handles drugs for eventual use by a patient. A Pharmacy does not include
production of federally regulated substances, nor the sale of Cannabis or Cannabis related products.
      "Place of Worship" means a meetinghouse, church, temple, mosque, synagogue, or other permanent
Structure used primarily for regular religious worship.
      "Plat" means a map or other geographic representation of land or land and Condominium units that a
licensed land surveyor prepares in accordance with UCA § 10-9a-603.
        "Plat, Final" means a Plat approved by the Planning Commission.
    "Plat Amendment" means the combining of existing, properly subdivided Lots into one or more Lots or the
amendment of recorded Final Plat notes or other recorded Final Plat elements.
        "Porch" means a roofed area, open on three-sides, that is attached to and derives access from a Building.
     "Portable Container" means a large, fully enclosed, durable, reusable receptacle that is typically
prefabricated for the purpose of transporting or storing freight or other goods and not for human occupancy.
Portable Container does not include a waste receptacle, dumpster, or similar container.
      "Poultry, Urban" means the keeping of up to six (6) hens on a residential Lot or Parcel, by the Owner of such
residential Lot or Parcel, for egg harvesting or companionship, and not for on-site slaughter.
      "Precious Metal Recycling" means a business that purchases precious metals from the general public for
recycling and refining. Precious Metal Recycling does not include Financial Institutions, a purchaser of precious
metals who purchases from a seller seeking a trade-in or allowance, jewelry manufacturers, manufacturers of
other items composed in whole or in part of gold, silver, or platinum, or a purchaser of precious metals for his/her
own use or ownership and not for resale or refining.
      "Printing, Large Scale" means a business specializing in reproduction of written or graphic materials on a
custom order basis for individuals or businesses. Large Scale Printing includes photocopy, blueprint, offset printing,
publishing, binding, and engraving.

                                                     Page 21 of 29
      "Property Line" means a boundary line of a Parcel or Lot. See also Lot Line.
     "Property Line, Corner" means a boundary of a Lot or Parcel that is approximately perpendicular to the Front
Property Line and is directly adjacent to a public Right-of-Way, other than an Alley or railroad.
       "Property Line, Front" means the boundary of a Lot or Parcel abutting a Right-of-Way, other than an Alley or
lane, from which the required Setback or Build-to Standard is measured.
     "Property Line, Rear" means the boundary of a Lot or Parcel that is approximately parallel to the Front
Property Line. The Rear Property Line that separates Lots from one another or separates a Lot from an Alley.
     "Property Line, Side" means the boundary of a Lot or Parcel that is approximately perpendicular to the Front
and Rear Property Lines.
      "Protective Housing Facility" means a facility operated, licensed, or contracted by a governmental entity, or
operated by a charitable, nonprofit organization, limited to no more than twelve (12) occupants at any one time,
that provides temporary, protective housing exclusively to:
      1.    Abused or neglected children awaiting placement in foster care;
      2.    Pregnant or parenting teens;
      3.    Victims of sexual abuse; or
      4.    Victims of domestic abuse.
      "Public Improvement" means any Structure, Street, curb, gutter, sidewalk, water or sewer line, storm sewer,
public Landscaping, flood control facility, and other similar facility for which the City may ultimately assume
responsibility, or which may affect a City improvement.
     "Public Utility Easement" means the area on a recorded Plat, map, or other recorded document that is
Dedicated to the use and installation of Public Utility Facilities or accessory equipment.
      "Public Utility Facility" means any Structure or Building used by a public utility agency to (a) store, distribute,
or generate electricity, gas, or telecommunications, and any related equipment, or (b) to capture, pump, or to
otherwise engage in all aspects of treating and distributing water or effluent. A Public Utility Facility does not
include storage or treatment of solid or hazardous waste.
      "Recording Studio" means a Building, or portion thereof, used by a Business primarily engaged in producing
music, publishing music, or other sound recording services. This may also include space for music rehearsal;
however, no rehearsal shall be advertised as a live performance or performed in front of an audience not engaged
in producing, publishing, or recording such music.
      "Recreation Center" means an establishment that provides a variety of recreation and fitness activities
including activities within a Structure as well as incidental and subordinate outdoor recreational activities on the
same Lot.
      "Recreational Vehicle” means a vehicular unit primarily designed as a temporary dwelling for travel,
recreational and vacation use, which is either self-propelled or is mounted on or pulled by another vehicle.
       "Recycling Collection/Drop-Off Facility" means a facility, entirely contained within a Building, that collects
recyclable materials for transport to a separate location for processing and recovery. Recyclable materials include
glass, plastic, paper, cloth, and other materials collected for recovery and re-use. This definition does not include
two (2) or fewer: a) newspaper recycling bins or b) other similar self-service recycling bins that are not staffed by
on-site employees.
      "Rehabilitation Center" means a facility licensed by the state to provide temporary occupancy and
supervision of adults or juveniles to deliver rehabilitation, treatment, or counseling services that are overseen by a
state licensed practitioner Rehabilitation Centers provide services related to delinquent behavior, alcohol and drug
abuse, conditions resulting from alcohol or drug abuse, sex offenses, sexual abuse, or mental health. A
Rehabilitation Center does not include a Homeless Shelter or Transitional Care and Rehabilitation.


                                                      Page 22 of 29
     "Residential Density" means the average number of Dwelling Units allowed per acre of land in a particular
Development.
      "Restaurant" means a business in which food is prepared and sold for consumption on the premises.
     "Retail" means the sale of goods or services directly to the consumer, that generates point-of-sale sales tax
revenues for South Salt Lake City. Retail does not include "Auto Body Repair", "Automotive Restoration"
"Automotive Service and Repair" or "Automotive Service Station (Non-Mechanical)".
      "Retail, Accessory" means a business engaged in the selling or rental of goods and/or merchandise. An
Accessory Retail business is a maximum of 1,000 square feet and is subordinate and incidental to a Primary Use
other than Retail.
     "Retail, General" means a business, that occupies a Building greater than 60,000 square feet, that provides
goods, including tobacco products and/or alcohol to other businesses in wholesale trade or directly to the
consumer. General Retail includes membership warehouse clubs. General Retail does not include "Auto Body
Repair", "Automotive Restoration" "Automotive Service and Repair" or "Automotive Service Station (Non-
Mechanical)".
      "Retail, Neighborhood" means a neighborhood-Scale Retail establishment, that occupies a Building, or
portion thereof, less than 60,000 square feet, engaged in the selling of goods or merchandise, but not excluding
alcohol or tobacco products, to other businesses in wholesale trade or directly to the consumer. Tobacco sales are
not permitted in Neighborhood Retail. No Alcohol and tobacco sales are not permitted in Neighborhood Retail
except for Off-Premise Beer Alcoholic Beverage sales when exclusively located in Retail space on the ground-floor
of a Multi-Family Dwelling Development. Neighborhood Retail does not include "Auto Body Repair", "Automotive
Restoration" "Automotive Service and Repair" or "Automotive Service Station (Non-Mechanical)".
      "Retention Area" means a pond, pool, or basin used for the permanent storage of water runoff.
     "Right-of-Way" means a strip of land acquired by reservation, Dedication, prescription, easement, or
condemnation that is intended to be occupied by a Street, trail, sidewalk, Park Strip, crosswalk, railroad, electric
transmission lines, oil or gas pipeline, water line, sanitary storm sewer, or other similar uses.
     "Roof-Mounted Antenna" means an Antenna or series of individual Antennae mounted on a roof, mechanical
room, or penthouse of a Building.
      "Scale" means the size of a Building, Structure, Street, sign, or other element compared to the proposed and
the existing built environment.
     "Screening" means a method of visually shielding or Buffering one abutting or nearby Structure or Use from
another by fencing, walls, Berms, or densely planted vegetation.
     "Secondhand Merchandise Dealer" means an Owner or operator of a business, that occupies no less than
3,000 square feet, and that: (a) deals in the purchase, exchange, or sale of used or secondhand merchandise or
personal property; and (b) is not a Pawn Broker. Secondhand Merchandise Dealer does not include:
      1.    The Owner or operator of an antique shop;
      2.    Any class of businesses exempt by administrative rule under Section 13-32a-112.5 (Utah Code Ann.) or
            its successor;
      3.    Any person or entity who operates an Auction House, flea market, or vehicle, vessel, and outboard
            motor dealer as defined in Section 41-1a-102 (Utah Code Ann.) or its successor;
      4.    The sale of secondhand goods at events commonly known as "garage sales", "yard sales", or "estate
            sales";
      5.    The sale or receipt of secondhand books, magazines, or post cards;
      6.    The sale or receipt of used merchandise donated to recognized nonprofit, religious, or charitable
            organizations or any school-sponsored association, and for which no compensation is paid;


                                                     Page 23 of 29
     7.    The sale or receipt of secondhand clothing and shoes;
     8.    Any person offering his own personal property for sale, purchase, consignment, or trade via the
           Internet;
     9.    Any person or entity offering the personal property of others for sale, purchase, consignment, or trade
           via the Internet, when that person or entity does not have, and is not required to have, a local business
           or occupational license or other authorization for this activity;
     10.   Any Owner or operator of a Retail business that contracts with other persons or entities to offer those
           persons' secondhand goods for sale, purchase, consignment, or trade via the Internet;
     11.   Any dealer as defined in Section 76-6-1402 (Utah Code Ann.) or its successor, which concerns scrap
           metal and secondary metals; or
     12.   The purchase of items in bulk that are:
           a.    Sold at wholesale in bulk packaging;
           b.    Sold by a person licensed to conduct business in Utah; and
           c.    Regularly sold in bulk quantities as a recognized form of sale.
      "Setback" means the minimum allowable distance between a Structure and the closest Property Line, edge
of curb, or platted public or private Right-of-Way.
     "Sexually Oriented Business" means any business defined as such in Chapter 5.01 of the Municipal Code.
     “Short-Term Rental” means renting all or portion of a property for less than thirty (30) days at a time.
      "Sign" means any advertising message, announcement, declaration, demonstration, display, illustration,
insignia, surface, or space erected or maintained in view of the observer thereof for identification, advertisement,
or promotion of the interests of any person, entity, product, or service. A Sign shall also include the structure,
supports, lighting system, and any attachments, ornaments, or other features used to draw the attention of
observers. A Sign does not include a flag, badge, or ensign of any government or governmental agency erected for
and used to identify said government or governmental agency.
     "Sign, Abandoned/Non-Maintained" means any of the following:
     1.    A Sign that no longer identifies or advertises a current, Active Business located on the property on
           which the Sign is situated;
     2.    A Sign for which no legal Owner can be found;
     3.    Signs for which required licenses have not been maintained for at least one year;
     4.    A Sign in poor condition displaying peeling paint, rust, and or other evidence of neglect; or
     5.    Signs considered abandoned or non-maintained as defined by the state of Utah.
      "Sign, Animated" means any Sign that uses movement or change of lighting to depict action or to create a
special effect or scene (compare with "Flashing Sign").
     "Sign Area" means the total area of any Sign, excluding the minimum frame and supports.
      "Sign, Attached" means any Sign that is fastened, attached, connected, or supported in whole or in part to a
Building or Building component and includes, but is not limited to, the following:
     1.    Awning Signs;
     2.    Canopy Signs;
     3.    Extended Signs;
     4.    Flat Signs;


                                                     Page 24 of 29
      5.    Marquee Signs;
      6.    Roof Signs (allowed only as a special exception);
      7.    Window Signs; and
      8.    Painted Wall Signs (allowed only as a special exception).
      "Sign, Detached" means any Sign not attached to a Building or Building component and supported
permanently upon the ground by poles or braces. A Detached Sign may consist of more than one Sign panel,
provided all such Sign panels are attached to one common integrated Sign structure. The total area of all such
panels may not exceed the maximum allowable Sign Area specified for the location for Detached Signs. Detached
Signs include but are not limited to:
      1.    Pole Signs;
      2.    Ground Signs; and
      3.    Low-profile Signs.
       "Sign, Directional (Off-Premise)" means a Sign containing no more than a logo, a name, and directions to the
institution or business and is located not located on the same property as the institution or business is located.
      "Sign, Incidental " means a small Sign, emblem, or decal informing the public of goods, facilities, or services
available on the premises. Examples of Incidental Signs include: a credit card Sign, a Sign indicating hours of
business, or residential Signs that are limited and temporary in nature such as "Welcome Home" or "It's a Boy!"
       "Sign, Nonconforming " means a Sign or a Sign Structure or portion thereof lawfully existing at the time this
Title became effective that does not conform to all height, location, placement, construction standards, area, and
Yard regulations prescribed in this Title and in the district in which it is located.
      "Sign, Roof" means a Sign erected partly or wholly on or over the roof of a Structure, including Detached
Signs that rest on or overlap 12 inches or more.
     "Sign, Temporary" means and includes any sign, with or without frames, intended to be displayed out of
doors for a short period of time and shall be limited to the following:
      1.    A banner, pennant, valance or advertising display constructed of paper, cloth, canvas, light fabric,
            cardboard, wall board or other light materials;
      2.    Balloons;
      3.    Festoons; and
      4.    Any Sign not permanently attached to a support or Building as required by this Title.
     "Sign, Wall (painted)" means a Sign that is painted on a wall or is painted without a frame or separation from
the wall or facing so that it appears to be painted on a wall.
      "Sign, Window" means a Sign that is attached to or painted on a window or door or is located within a
Building and is visible from the exterior of the Building through a window or door.
      "Significant Vegetation" means any large tree of six-inch (6") caliper or greater, grove of five (5) or more
smaller trees each of less than six-inch (6") caliper, or clump of oak or maple trees covering an Area of 50 square
feet as measured to their canopy driplines.
       "Site Plan" means a plan that outlines the Use and Development of any tract of land within South Salt Lake
City for the purposes of determining compliance with this Code.
      "Slaughterhouse/Animal Processing " means any facility where livestock or poultry are slaughtered and
prepared for distribution to butcher shops, processing facilities, or Retail sales establishments such as grocery
stores. A Slaughterhouse is entirely enclosed with a Building and may include packing, treating, storage, on-site
sale of animal by-products, or tanning of animal skins and hides.


                                                     Page 25 of 29
      "Solar Energy System" means an energy system that converts solar energy to usable thermal, mechanical,
chemical, or electrical energy to meet a Structure's energy demands. A Solar Energy System includes systems that
are integrated into a Building or Structure, as well as those that are mounted outside of a Building or Structure.
      "Specialty Recreational Installation" means a Structure dedicated to the support of one or more outdoor
recreational pursuits. Specialty Recreational Installation is limited to a pavilion, bicycle-share/rental Structure,
active nature-play Structure, animal or ecosystem observation Structure, amphitheater and built trail
improvement. Specialty Recreational Installation does not include any Structure dedicated to the support of
camping or overnight recreational pursuits.
     "Storage, Outdoor" means the keeping of any components, products, debris, materials, merchandise,
equipment, vehicles, or trailers in any unenclosed area outside of a Structure on a subject parcel.
     "Storage Facility, Indoor Climate Controlled" means a Building used to provide separate, indoor climate
controlled storage areas for individuals or businesses that is designed for direct, private access by the tenant to
each unit from an enclosed corridor.
      "Storage Facility, Outdoor" means an outdoor equipment yard, depository, stockpiling or storage of materials
and products, or contractor's yard. Outdoor Storage Facilities include the storage of items used for non-Retail or
industrial trade, merchandise inventory, or bulk materials such as sand, gravel, and other building materials.
Storage Facility, Outdoor does not include the outdoor storage of motor vehicles. Storage Facility, Outdoor does
not include a business that is designed for direct, private access by the tenant to each unit.
      "Storage Facility, Warehouse" means a Building that is primarily used for the indoor storage of goods and
merchandise and includes a distribution facility. A Storage Warehouse does not include outdoor storage of any
kind.
      "Story" means the vertical measurement between floors taken from finish floor to finish floor. For the top
Story, the vertical measurement is taken from the top finish floor to the top of the wall Plate of the roof.
     "Street" means any improved public Right-of-Way for vehicular traffic or any private Right-of-Way Dedicated
and improved to City standards that provides Access to property.
     "Street, Arterial" means a Street designated in the Master Streets Plan as a controlled-access highway or
major Street parkway.
      "Street, Cul-de-Sac" and "Cul-de-Sac" means a minor terminal (dead end) Street with a turn-around.
      "Street, Freeway" means a Street with fully controlled access designed to link major destination points.
      "Street, Local" means a Street that is designated as such in the Master Streets Plan.
      "Street, Major Collector" means a Street that is designated as such in the Master Streets Plan.
      "Street, Minor Collector" means a Street, that is designated as such in the Master Streets Plan.
     "Street, Private" means a Right-of-Way that has been improved to City standards and Dedicated by a
recorded Plat as a private access, with the right of public use, to serve specific property.
      "Street, Public" means a Right-of-Way that has been Dedicated to the City by Plat, or that the City has
acquired by prescriptive right, deed, or other form of legal Dedication.
      "Streetscape" means the visual elements of a Street, including paving materials, adjacent space on both sides
of the Street, Landscaping, retaining walls, sidewalks, Building Façades, lighting, medians, Street furniture, and
signs that, in combination, form the Street's character.
      "Structure" means anything constructed or erected that is permanently affixed to the ground in any manner.
A Structure includes a Building.
      "Structure, Accessory" means a Structure that: (1) is clearly incidental and subordinate to a Primary Building
located on the same Lot or Parcel; (2) is operated and maintained under the same ownership as Primary Building


                                                      Page 26 of 29
and the Primary Use; (3) houses an Accessory Use only; (4) contains no living space; (5) is not attached to a Primary
Building; and (6) is at least 200 square feet. Accessory Structures include garages and sheds.
     "Structure, Primary" means a Structure that houses the Primary Use associated with the Lot or Parcel.
      "Structure, Temporary" means any physical space that is constructed without a foundation or footings, or
that contains a hitch, wheels, or trailer base, and can be removed from a location when the designated time
period, activity, or Use for which the Structure was erected ceases.
     "Subdivided Land" means the land, tract, or Lot described in a properly recorded Subdivision Plat.
      "Subdivision" means any land that is divided, re-subdivided, or proposed to be divided into one or more Lots,
Parcels, sites, units, plots, or other division of land for the purpose—whether immediate or future—for sale, lease,
or Development. A Subdivision includes the division or Development of residential or non-residential zoned land by
deed, metes and bounds description, devise and testacy, map, Plat, or other recorded instrument.
    "Tailoring Shop" means a business that primarily engages in clothing alteration, clothing repair, and made-to
measure clothing or other garments.
      "Tattoo Shop/Parlor" means any location, place, area, Structure, or business used for the practice of
tattooing or the instruction of tattooing. Tattoo Shop/Parlor does not include businesses that primarily engages in
permanent cosmetics application to restore eyebrows or enhance lips or eyelines.
      "Theater, Live Performance" means an establishment for the performance of dramatic, dance, music, or
other live performances with fixed seating for audiences. Live Performance Theaters do not include Sexually
Oriented Businesses or Movie Theaters.
     "Theater, Movie" means a Building, or portion thereof, devoted to showing motion pictures for a fee. Movie
Theaters include Accessory Uses such as food, beverage, and other concession sales.
        "Tobacco Shop" means a tobacco retailer whose business involves the sale of tobacco products and includes
the incidental and subordinate sale of related tobacco products. A tobacco shop also includes an incidental and
subordinate social/lounge room for smoking on the premises. A Tobacco Shop does not include tobacco specialty
retail.
     "Tobacco Specialty Retail" means a commercial establishment in which:
     1.    Sales of tobacco products, Electronic Cigarette Products, and nicotine products account for more than
           thirty-five (35) percent of the total quarterly gross receipts for the establishment;
     2.    Twenty (20) percent or more of the public retail floor space is allocated to the offer, display, or storage
           of tobacco products, Electronic Cigarette Products, or nicotine products;
     3.    Twenty (20) percent or more of the total shelf space is allocated to the offer, display, or storage of
           tobacco products, Electronic Cigarette Products, or nicotine products;
           a.    The commercial establishment:
                  holds itself out as a retail tobacco specialty business; and
           b.    Causes a reasonable person to believe the commercial establishment is a retail tobacco specialty
                 business;
     4.    Any flavored Electronic Cigarette Product is sold; or
     5.    The retail space features a self-service display (as that term is defined in UCA Section 76-10-105.1, or
           any amendment thereto) for tobacco products, Electronic Cigarette Products, or nicotine products.
       "Trailer" means any object designed to be towed or pulled behind a vehicle, and designed to travel along
the ground by use of wheels, treads, runners, or slides. "Trailer” includes semi-trailers.




                                                     Page 27 of 29
       "Transitional Housing" means a facility that provides free temporary housing to homeless persons for at least
thirty (30) days while they obtain work, job skills, or otherwise take steps to stabilize their circumstances. A
Transitional Housing facility does not include:
     1.    A Homeless Shelter;
     2.    A Dwelling Unit provided to a Family for its exclusive use as part of a transitional housing program for
           more than one hundred eighty (180) days;
     3.    A Residential Facility for Persons with a Disability;
     4.    Permanent Supportive Housing; or
     5.    Assisted Living Facilities.
     "Transitional Care and Rehabilitation" means a facility that provides mental health services or drug
rehabilitation and treatment to homeless persons.
       "Turf Grass" means a variety of grasses—such as Kentucky bluegrass or perennial rye grass—grown to form
turf, or lawn, as opposed to tufted ornamental grass.
      "Upholstery Shop" means a business that repairs and replaces upholstery for household and office
furnishings. Upholstery Shop does not include motor vehicle upholstering or repair.
     "Use" means the purpose or purposes for which land or Structures are approved, occupied, maintained,
arranged, designed, or intended.
      "Use, Accessory" or "Accessory" means a subordinate and incidental Use located upon the same Lot, and in
the same zoning district, as the Primary Use or Building.
      "Use, Conditional" means a Use that, because of its unique characteristics or potential impact on the City,
surrounding neighbors, or adjacent Uses, may not be Compatible in some areas or may be Compatible only if
certain conditions are required that mitigate or eliminate the detrimental impacts.
      "Use, Intensity of" means the maximum number of residential units, commercial patrons, or industrial space
within a specified land Area designated for that purpose.
     "Use, Primary" means the principal Permitted Use established on a Lot or Parcel.
      "Use, Residential" means any Use that is primarily residential in nature, but where the Primary Use is human
habitation. Residential Use includes occupancy of a Dwelling as living quarters and all Accessory Uses but does not
include Temporary Structures or unaffixed shelter such as tents, containers, railroad cars, vehicles, trailers, or
similar units.
      "Use, Temporary " means a seasonal business, licensed by the City, that engages in the temporary sale of
goods, wares, or merchandise from a tent, vending cart, or other area on property owned or leased by the person,
firm, or corporation, such as: firework or Christmas tree stands. Temporary Uses are incidental and subordinate to
the Primary Use or Structure existing on the property, and not incompatible with the intent of the district.
     "Variance" means a modification of a zoning requirement made necessary because some unique aspect of a
parcel makes the requirement burdensome or unfair.
     "Wall-Mounted Antenna" means an Antenna or series of Antennae mounted to the Façade of a Building or a
chimney.
     "Whip Antenna" means an Antenna that is cylindrical in shape. Whip Antennae can be directional or
omnidirectional and vary in size depending upon the frequency and gain for which they are designed.
     "Yard" means the portion of a Lot between a Lot Line and its nearest Setback line.
      "Yard, Corner Side" means the Yard space adjacent to a Street that extends from the Front Yard Setback line
and the Rear Property Line and between the Corner Side Setback line and the Street Property Line.


                                                     Page 28 of 29
      "Yard, Front" means the area that includes the full width of the Lot or Parcel extending from the Main
Building to any Lot Line abutting a Street, or private right of access. On a vacant Lot or Parcel, the area that
includes the full width of the Lot from the depth of the minimum Setback to any Lot Line abutting any Street. A
Corner Lot or a Double Frontage Lot has two Front Yards.
     "Yard, Rear" means the Yard extending across the full width of the Lot between the Rear Lot Line and the
Nearest line or point of the Building. The Rear Yard is that portion of the Yard opposite the Front Yard.
      "Yard, Side" means the Yard extending from the Front Yard to the Rear Yard between the Side Lot Line and
the nearest line or point of the Building.




                                                    Page 29 of 29
                                             CITY COUNCIL STAFF REPORT
Meeting Date:     September 25, 2024
Request:          A petition to the South Salt Lake City Council to allow Off-Premise Beer sales in the ground floor retail
                  space of multi-family developments and to amend the Park and Ride definition.
Applicants:       South Salt Lake City
Type of item:     Legislative – Code Amendment

 SYNOPSIS:
 City staff has received feedback that developers are having a hard time leasing out ground floor retail spaces to small
 grocers because alcohol sales are not permitted. The shortage of small grocers contributes to a food desert in some
 areas of the city along with empty retail spaces. This code amendment would allow more bodega type retail stores in
 the retail space of multi-family developments in South Salt Lake, which would benefit the residents within the
 development and the businesses surrounding the multi-family development.

 Additionally, the City has a pending plat application for the Millcreek TRAX station. As part of the review process, staff
 noticed that the Park and Ride definition is not as comprehensive as it could be. Staff has proposed some language,
 which would include Accessory Structures that are necessary to the operation of public transit, in order to clarify the
 definition.

 The Planning Commission is the recommending body for amendments to land use ordinances and the City Council is
 the land use authority for amendments to land use ordinances.

 Staff has provided a summary of proposed amendments below. For the full amendment to Title 17, please see the
 attachments provided herein that include a full-redlined ordinance.

 PLANNING COMMISSION RECOMMENDATION:
 On September 19, 2024, the Planning Commission held a Public Hearing. There were no public comments given. The
 Planning Commission discussed if the Accessory Structure at a Park and Ride would allow for a mechanic shop or a
 similar use. After reading the Park and Ride and Accessory Structure definitions and clarifying that the Park and Ride
 use is a Conditional Use, the Planning Commission was comfortable with the proposed language.

 The Planning Commission was in support of the code change to allow off-premise beer sales in the ground-floor of
 multi-family. They are excited for the new business it will bring it and how it will allow increased walkability throughout
 the city.

 STAFF RECOMMENDATION:
 Staff recommends the City Council move to approve the ordinance to amend Section 1 of Title 17 of the South Salt
 Lake City Municipal Code (“Title 17”) to the allow off-premise beer sales in the ground floor retail space of multi-
 family developments and amend the Park and Ride definition.

 CODE SECTIONS                           HIGHLIGHT OF CHANGES
 Amending Title 17.01                    o General Clean Up:
 Definitions                                17.01.010 Definitions
                                              ✓ Change to the Off-Premise Beer definition so it is consistent with the
                                                  proposed change to the Retail, Neighbor definition change.


                                                              1
                                                        ▪ This code change was added since the Planning Commission
                                                          held their Public Hearing.
                                              ✓ Add language allowing the sale of off-premise beer if located in
                                                ground floor retail space in a multi-family development.
                                              ✓ Add language to the Park and Ride definition to allow for Accessory
                                                Structures that are necessary to the operation of public transit.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION:
Staff recommends the City Council move to approve the ordinance to amend Section 1 of Title 17 of the South Salt
Lake City Municipal Code (“Title 17”) to the allow off-premise beer sales in the ground floor retail space of multi-family
developments and amend the Park and Ride definition.


PLANNING COMMISSION AUTHORITY:
17.11.010. Establishment and Duties of Planning Commission.
    K. Responsibilities.

        A. The Planning Commission makes recommendations to the City Council for:
               a. The general plan and amendments to the general plan;
               b. The Land Use Map, and amendments to the Land Use Map;
               c. Amendments to land use ordinances;
               d. Proposed Application processes and the delegation of power under the land use ordinance.

PLANNING COMMISSION REVIEW:

Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-502. Preparation and adoption of land use regulation states:
       1. A planning commission shall:
               a. provide notice as required by Subsection 10-9a-205(1)(a) and, if applicable, Subsection 10-9a-
               205(4);
               b. hold a public hearing on a proposed land use regulation;
               c. if applicable, consider each written objection filed in accordance with Subsection 10-9a-
               205(4) prior to the public hearing; and
               d.       i. review and recommend to the legislative body a proposed land use regulation that
                        represents the planning commission's recommendation for regulating the use and
                        development of land within all or any part of the area of the municipality; and
                        ii. forward to the legislative body all objections filed in accordance with Subsection 10-9a-
                        205(4).

CITY COUNCIL OPTIONS:
Option 1: Approval
   Move to approve the ordinance amending Section 1 of Title 17 of the South Salt Lake City Municipal Code (“Title
   17”) to allow off-premise beer sales in the ground floor retail space of multi-family developments and amend the
   Park and Ride definition.

Option 2: Recommendation of Denial
   Move to deny the ordinance amending Section 1 of Title 17 of the South Salt Lake City Municipal Code (“Title 17”)
   to the allow off-premise beer sales in the ground floor retail space of multi-family developments and amend the
   Park and Ride definition.

Option 3: Continuance
                                                            2
   Move to table the ordinance amending Section 1 of Title 17 of the South Salt Lake City Municipal Code (“Title 17”)
   to the allow off-premise beer sales in the ground floor retail space of multi-family developments and amend the
   Park and Ride definition.

Attachments:
    1. Redlined Ordinance Amendment




                                                         3
South Salt Lake City Council Regular Meeting                     September 25, 2024 Page 2


Posted September 20, 2024

Those needing auxiliary communicative aids or other services for this meeting should contact
Ariel Andrus at 801-483-6019, giving at least 24 hours’ notice.

In accordance with State Statute and Council Policy, one or more Council Members may be connected
electronically.

                                   Public Comments/Question Policy
Time is made available for anyone in the audience to address the Council and/or Mayor concerning
matters pertaining to City business. When a member of the audience addresses the Council and/or
Mayor, they will come to the podium and state their name and City they reside in. The Public will be
asked to limit their remarks/questions to three (3) minutes each. The conducting Council Member shall
have discretion as to who will respond to a comment/question. In all cases the criteria for response will
be that comments/questions must be pertinent to City business, that there are no argumentative
questions and no personal attacks. Some comments/questions may have to wait for a response until
the next regular council meeting. The conducting Council Member will inform a citizen when they have
used the allotted time. Grievances by City employees must be processed in accordance with adopted
personnel rules.

Have a question or concern? Call the connect line 801-464-6757 or email connect@sslc.gov
