                                                           AGENDA
                                             PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
                                                 Thursday, September 5, 2024
                                               South Salt Lake Council Chambers
                                                    220 East Morris Avenue


                   PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING AT 5:45 P.M.
                      1. Discussion of Pending Automotive Ordinance
                      2. Shelter the Homeless Application Overview


                   PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING AT 7:00 P.M.
 JONATHAN           Pledge of Allegiance: Stacey Holscher
WEIDENHAMER         Approve Agenda:       Jeremy Carter
COMMUNITY &        STAFF BUSINESS – INFORMATION ITEMS
 ECONOMIC
                    Utah Open & Public Meetings Acts Online Training
DEVELOPMENT
  DIRECTOR
                   PLANNING COMMISSION BUSINESS
                    Approval of the July 11, 2024, Planning Commission Minutes
                    ACTION ITEM

                    Approval of the August 1, 2024, Planning Commission Minutes
                    ACTION ITEM

                   CONTINUING BUSINESS
                    None at this time

                   NEW BUSINESS
                    1. PUBLIC HEARING
                       A petition to the Planning Commission to forward a positive recommendation to the
                       South Salt Lake City Council for a Zone Change and an Ordinance Amendment for
                       property located at 315 West 3300 South.
                       ACTION ITEM
                       Applicant: Shelter the Homeless

                    2. PUBLIC HEARING
                       An application for Preliminary Subdivision Plat for a one-lot subdivision, located at
                       315 West 3300 South. The applicant is Shelter the Homeless.
                       ACTION ITEM
                       Applicant: Shelter the Homeless

                    2. PUBLIC MEETING
                       Discussion and notice of a pending ordinance related to proposed changes to Title
                       17 of the South Salt Lake City Municipal Code updating the standards and conditions
                       for the automotive uses.
CHERIE WOOD            ACTION ITEM
    MAYOR              Applicant: South Salt Lake City
220 E MORRIS AVE
    SUITE 200      Join Zoom Webinar
SOUTH SALT LAKE    Please click the link below to join the webinar:
      UTAH         https://zoom.us/j/94724281477 | Webinar ID: 947 2428 1477
      84115
 O 801.483.6000
    SSLC.GOV           IN COMPLIANCE WITH THE AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT, INDIVIDUALS NEEDING AUXILIARY
MAYOR@SSLC.GOV      COMMUNICATIVE AIDS OR OTHER SERVICES FOR THIS MEETING SHOULD CONTACT ELIZA UNGRICHT, (801)
                                            483-6013, GIVING AT LEAST 24 HOURS NOTICE.
South Salt Lake Planning Commission Meeting   September 5, 2024, Page 2
                                   PLANNING COMMISSION STAFF REPORT
MEETING DATE:                  September 5, 2024
PROJECT NUMBERS:               OA24-003
                               ZC24-0002
REQUESTS:                      1) A petition for an ordinance of the South Salt Lake City Council amending South Salt Lake
                               City Municipal Code Title 17.01.010 to update definitions, adopting Title 17.03.270 for a new
                               Family Interim Non-congregate Children Housing Facility “FINCH” land use district and
                               amending Title 17.05.040 to include additional regulations for conditional uses with specific
                               standards related to homeless shelters.
                               2) A petition for a zoning map amendment for the South Salt Lake City Council amending
                               South Salt Lake Municipal Code to amend the South Salt Lake Zoning Map from Transit
                               Oriented Development to Family Interim Non-congregate Children Housing Facility (FINCH)
                               zone for one parcel of land located at 315 West 3300 South.
PARCEL NUMBERS:                15-25-451-170-0000
ADDRESS:                       315 West 3300 South
PROPERTY OWNER:                Shelter the Homeless, Inc.
APPLICANT:                     Shelter the Homeless, Inc.
TYPES OF APPLICATIONS:         Legislative – Code Amendment and Zoning Map Amendment
SYNOPSIS:
Shelter the Homeless, Inc. (“STH”) is petitioning the South Salt Lake
Planning Commission and City Council for two separate petitions:
  1) A petition for an ordinance of the South Salt Lake City Council
     amending South Salt Lake City Municipal Code Title 17.01.010 to
     update definitions, adopting Title 17.03.270 for a new Family Interim
     Non-congregate Children Housing Facility “FINCH” land use district
     and amending Title 17.05.040 to include additional regulations for
     conditional uses with specific standards related to homeless shelters.

  2) A petition for a zoning map amendment for the South Salt Lake City
     Council amending South Salt Lake Municipal Code to amend the
     South Salt Lake Zoning Map from Transit Oriented Development to
     Family Interim Non-congregate Children Housing Facility (FINCH)
     zone for one parcel of land located at 315 West 3300 South.

The purpose of the amendments is to allow a new Family Interim Non-congregate Children Housing Facility located
at 315 West 3300 South. The use is defined as a facility that is owned, operated, or contracted for operations by a
governmental entity or a charitable, nonprofit organization, which provides free, temporary, non-congregate
housing to families – which must include at least one minor child or one young-adult child who is still engaged in
the K-12 public school system – who are expiring homelessness while the parent(s) or guardian(s) obtain work, job
skills, or otherwise take steps to stabilize the family’s long term housing circumstances. STH purchased the subject
property in 2023. The Transit Oriented Development (“TOD”) land use district prohibits new homeless shelters,
and all uses that are not specifically listed in the land use matrix.

PUBLIC OUTREACH:
Shelter the Homeless, Inc. in partnership with South Salt Lake City held a joint public meeting with the Planning
Commission and City Council on August 21, 2024, to introduce publicly the petition.

ENTITLEMENT PATH SUMMARY:
The entitlement process for this petition includes the following applications: 1) Petition for a Zone Change and
Development Agreement; 2) Petition for an Ordinance Amendment; 3) Application for a Subdivision Plat; 4)
Application for a Conditional Use Permit; 5) Application for a Building Permit; and 6) Application for a Certificate
of Occupancy.

The Planning Commission is the recommending body for amendments to land use ordinances and zoning map
amendments and the City Council is the land use authority for amendments to land use ordinances and zoning
map amendments. The Planning Commission is the land use authority over preliminary subdivision plats. Final
subdivision plat approval is administrative. Building permits and certificates of occupancy are administrative.


                                                           1
                               PLANNING COMMISSION STAFF REPORT

GENERAL INFORMATION:
Location:                   315 West 3300 South
Project Size:               1.88 Acres
Existing Zoning:            Transit Oriented Development “TOD”
Prior Use:                  Previously operated as a Motel 6
Surrounding Uses:           North: Office/Retail
                            South: Single Family Residential & Office/Warehousing
                            East: Office, Retail, Gas Station
                            West: I-15 & Industrial
Figure 1: Existing Zoning
                                                                                    Commercial
                                                                                    General

                                                                                    Transit Oriented
                                                                                    Development
                                                                                    Transit Oriented
                                                                                    Development - Core

                                                                                    Family Interim Non-
                                                                                    Congregate Housing
                                                                                    Facility (FINCH)




Figure 3: Proposed Zoning




                                                   2
Figure 4: Existing Site Conditions




PLANNING COMMISSION AUTHORITY:
17.11.010. Establishment and Duties of Planning Commission.
   K. Responsibilities.
      A. The Planning Commission makes recommendations to the City Council for:
             a. The general plan and amendments to the general plan;
             b. The Land Use Map, and amendments to the Land Use Map;
             c. Amendments to land use ordinances;
             d. Proposed Application processes and the delegation of power under the land use
                 ordinance.

GENERAL PLAN CONSIDERATIONS:
Land Use & Neighborhoods Goal 1. Continue to welcome new residents and businesses into South Salt Lake.

Housing Goal 1. Encourage the equitable development of diverse, safe, affordable, and attractive housing that
is accessible and appropriate for residents of all incomes, needs, ages, backgrounds, and familial status.




                                                     3
Community Facilities Goal 1. Provide a full range of public facilities and services that reflect the needs of the
community.

SUMMARY OF ORDINANCE ANALYSIS:
 Petitions:                                                Legislative Policy Decisions:
 Zone Change & Development Agreement                       ✓ Petition to rezone the subject property from
                                                              Transit Oriented Development (TOD) to Family
                                                              Interim Non-congregate Children Housing
                                                              Facility (FINCH).

                                                           ✓ The City Council will consider this petition
                                                             alongside a Development Agreement.

 Ordinance Amendment                              ✓ Modifications to 17.01 – Definitions
                                                         ▪ New definition for FINCH
                                                         ▪ Code cleanup throughout other
                                                             definitions removing conflicts with above
                                                             proposed new definition.
                                                  ✓ Modifications to 17.03 – Land Use Districts &
                                                     Matrix
                                                         ▪ New zone development standards for
                                                             the FINCH district.
                                                  ✓ Modifications to 17.05 – Conditional Use Review
                                                         ▪ New conditional use criteria specific to
                                                             the FINCH.
Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-502. Preparation and adoption of land use regulation states:

       1. A planning commission shall:
               a. provide notice as required by Subsection 10-9a-205(1)(a) and, if applicable,

PLANNING COMMISSION REVIEW:
                    Subsection 10-9a-205(4);
               b.   hold a public hearing on a proposed land use regulation;
               c.   if applicable, consider each written objection filed in accordance with Subsection 10-9a-
                    205(4) prior to the public hearing; and
               d.   review and recommend to the legislative body a proposed land use regulation that
                    represents the planning commission's recommendation for regulating the use and
                    development of land within all or any part of the area of the municipality; and forward to
                    the legislative body all objections filed in accordance with Subsection 10-9a-205(4).

STAFF RECOMMENDATION:
Staff recommends the Planning Commission forward a recommendation to the City Council to approve both
petitions, with the following findings of fact and conditions of approval:

       1) A petition for an ordinance of the South Salt Lake City Council amending South Salt Lake City
          Municipal Code Title 17.01.010 to update definitions, adopting Title 17.03.270 for a new Family
          Interim Non-congregate Children Housing “FINCH” land use district and amending Title 17.05.040
          to include additional regulations for conditional uses with specific standards related to Homeless
          Shelters.

       2) A petition for a zoning map amendment for the South Salt Lake City Council amending South Salt
          Lake Municipal Code to amend the South Salt Lake Zoning Map from Transit Oriented Development
          land use district to Family Interim Non-congregate Children Housing (FINCH) land use district for
          one parcel of land located at 315 West 3300 South.

                                                       4
Findings of Fact:
       1. In 2023, Shelter the Homeless, Inc. (the “Applicant”) purchased property located at 315 West 3300
          South in South Salt Lake City, on which an abandoned motel complex (the “Property”) was located.

       2. At the time of purchase, the Property was located in the Transit Oriented Development land use
          district. The Transit Oriented Development land use district prohibits new homeless shelters, and all
          uses that are not specifically listed in the land use matrix.

       3. South Salt Lake City’s municipal code requires all development lots to be located within a recorded
          subdivision plat and to be served by adequate public infrastructure.

       4. At the time it was originally developed as a motel, the Property was developed in unincorporated
          Salt Lake County and was not served by public infrastructure that met City standards applied to the
          Transit Oriented Development or any existing zone within the City.

       5. In 1998, prior owners annexed the motel property into South Salt Lake City under a state law, which
          required the City to annex substandard development upon its owner’s request.

       6. At the time it was originally developed as a motel, the Property was not included in a legal
          subdivision plat.

       7. In June 2023 after the Applicant purchased the motel Property, the Applicant submitted a
          predevelopment application to review the proposal to convert the abandoned motel complex into
          a new Family Interim Non-congregate Children Housing Facility (“FINCH”).

       8. Based on the Applicants predevelopment application, city staff determined that the Applicants
          proposal would require the following path to achieve full development entitlements and operation
          permits:

               a.   Petition for a Zoning Map Amendment and Development Agreement
               b.   Petition for an Ordinance Amendment
               c.   Application for a Subdivision Plat
               d.   Application for a Conditional Use Permit
               e.   Application for a Building Permit
               f.   Application for a Certificate of Occupancy

       9. On September 1, 2023, the Applicant submitted petitions for a Zoning Map Amendment and a
          Ordinance Amendment for modifications to the South Salt Lake Municipal Code to create a new
          FINCH zone.

Conditioned upon the following:
       1. If approved by the South Salt Lake City Council, the petition to amend the South Salt Lake zoning
          map will not take effect until such time that South Salt Lake grants final plat approval of the
          subdivision plat, and said plat is recorded with the office of the Salt Lake County Recorder and the
          South Salt Lake Planning Commission grants conditional approval for a Conditional Use Permit on
          the subject property.

PLANNING COMMISSION OPTIONS:


1) A petition for an ordinance of the South Salt Lake City Council amending South Salt Lake City Municipal
   Code Title 17.01.010 to update definitions, adopting Title 17.03.270 for a new Family Interim Non-
   congregate Children Housing Facility “FINCH” land use district and amending Title 17.05.040 to include
   additional regulations for conditional uses with specific standards related to homeless shelters.

               Option 1: Approval

                                                      5
                   Move to approve the petition for an ordinance of the South Salt Lake City Council amending
                   South Salt Lake City Municipal Code Title 17.01.010 to update definitions, adopting Title
                   17.03.270 for a new Family Interim Non-congregate Children Housing Facility “FINCH” land
                   use district and amending Title 17.05.040 to include additional regulations for conditional
                   uses with specific standards related to homeless shelters.

               Option 2: Denial
                  Move to deny the petition for an ordinance of the South Salt Lake City Council amending
                  South Salt Lake City Municipal Code Title 17.01.010 to update definitions, adopting Title
                  17.03.270 for a new Family Interim Non-congregate Children Housing Facility “FINCH” land
                  use district and amending Title 17.05.040 to include additional regulations for conditional
                  uses with specific standards related to homeless shelters.

               Option 3: Continuance
                  Move to table the petition for an ordinance of the South Salt Lake City Council amending
                  South Salt Lake City Municipal Code Title 17.01.010 to update definitions, adopting Title
                  17.03.270 for a new Family Interim Non-congregate Children Housing Facility “FINCH” land
                  use district and amending Title 17.05.040 to include additional regulations for conditional
                  uses with specific standards related to homeless shelters to a date certain to allow the
                  Applicants and Staff time to respond to specific inquires or concerns raised by the Planning
                  Commission, or to allow the Planning Commission more time to consider the proposal.

2) A petition for a zoning map amendment for the South Salt Lake City Council amending South Salt Lake
   Municipal Code to amend the South Salt Lake Zoning Map from Transit Oriented Development land use
   district to Family Interim Non-congregate Children Housing Facility (FINCH) land use district for one parcel
   of land located at 315 West 3300 South.

               Option 1: Approval
                  Move to approve a petition for a zoning map amendment for the South Salt Lake City Council
                  amending South Salt Lake Municipal Code to amend the South Salt Lake Zoning Map from
                  Transit Oriented Development land use district to Family Interim Non-congregate Children
                  Housing Facility (FINCH) land use district for one parcel of land located at 315 West 3300
                  South.

               Option 2: Denial
                  Move to deny a petition for a zoning map amendment for the South Salt Lake City Council
                  amending South Salt Lake Municipal Code to amend the South Salt Lake Zoning Map from
                  Transit Oriented Development land use district to Family Interim Non-congregate Children
                  Housing Facility (FINCH) land use district for one parcel of land located at 315 West 3300
                  South.


               Option 3: Continuance
                  Move to table a petition for a zoning map amendment for the South Salt Lake City Council
                  amending South Salt Lake Municipal Code to amend the South Salt Lake Zoning Map from
                  Transit Oriented Development land use district to Family Interim Non-congregate Children
                  Housing Facility (FINCH) land use district for one parcel of land located at 315 West 3300
                  South to a date certain to allow the Applicants and Staff time to respond to specific inquires
                  or concerns raised by the Planning Commission, or to allow the Planning Commission more
                  time to consider the proposal.

Attachments:
   1. Ordinance Form – Ordinance Amendment
   2. Redlined Ordinance Amendment
   3. Ordinance Form – Zoning Amendment


                                                       6
SECTION I: Amend Section 17.01.010 as follows:

17.01.010 - Definitions.
     "Active Business" means a business holding a current South Salt Lake City business license.
     "Administrative Law Judge" means a person appointed by the Mayor or the Mayor's designee to
preside over administrative hearings.
      "Adult Day Care" means non-residential daytime care and supervision of three (3) or more
functionally impaired adults. Adult Day Care is not Day Treatment, a Homeless Shelter, or any other
defined Use in this Chapter.
     "Affected Entity" for the purposes of required notice of public hearings for a General Plan
amendment or the adoption or revision of a Land Use Regulation, means a county, municipality, local
school district, special service district under Utah Code Annotated (UCA) Title 17D, Chapter 1, Special
Service District Act, school district, interlocal cooperation entity established under UCA Title 11,
Chapter 13, Interlocal Cooperation Act, specified public utility under UCA Title 10, Chapter 9a,
Municipal Land Use, Development, and Management Act, a property Owners' association, or the Utah
Department of Transportation, if:
         1.   The entity's services or facilities are likely to require expansion or significant modification
              because of an intended Use of land;
         2.   The entity has filed with the City a copy of the entity's general or long-range plan; or
         3.   The entity has filed with the City a request for notice during the same calendar year and
              before the City provides notice to an Affected Entity in compliance with a requirement
              imposed under the state Land Use Development and Management Act.
      "Alcoholic Beverage, Banquet and Catering" means an entity operating under and holding the
required Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control license issued in accordance with Utah Code
Annotated Title 32B, Chapter 6, Part 6, On-Premise Banquet License, and corresponding City liquor
license.
      "Alcoholic Beverage, Bar Establishment" means an entity operating under and holding the
required Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control license issued in accordance with Utah Code
Annotated Title 32B, Chapter 6, Part 4, Bar Establishment License, and corresponding City liquor
license.
      "Alcoholic Beverage, Beer Recreational" means an entity operating under and holding the
required Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control license issued in accordance with Utah Code
Annotated Title 32B, Chapter 6, Part 7, On-premise Beer Retailer License, and corresponding City
beer license.
     "Alcoholic Beverage, Beer Wholesaler" means an entity operating under and holding the required
Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control license issued in accordance with Utah Code Annotated Title
32B, Chapter 13, Beer Wholesaling License Act, and corresponding City beer license.
      "Alcoholic Beverage, Hotel" means an entity operating under and holding the required
Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control license issued in accordance with Utah Code Annotated
Title 32B, Chapter 8b, Hotel License Act, and corresponding City liquor license.
      "Alcoholic Beverage, Liquor Warehouse" means an entity operating under and holding the
required Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control license issued in accordance with Utah Code
Annotated Title 32B, Chapter 12, Liquor Warehousing License Act, and corresponding City liquor
license.
     "Alcoholic Beverage, Local Industry Representative" means an entity operating under and
holding the required Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control license issued in accordance with Utah
Code Annotated Title 32B, Chapter 11, Part 6, Local Industry Representative License Act, and
corresponding City liquor license.




                                                                                                                1
     "Alcoholic Beverage, Manufacturer" means an entity operating under and holding the required (a)
Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control license issued in accordance with Utah Code Annotated Title
32B:
          1.   Chapter 11, Part 3, Winery Manufacturing License,
          2.   Chapter 11, Part 4, Distillery Manufacturing License, or
          3.   Chapter 11, Part 5, Brewery Manufacturing License; and
(b) Corresponding City liquor license.
     "Alcoholic Beverage, Off-Premise Beer" means an entity operating under and holding the required
Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control license issued in accordance with Utah Code Annotated Title
32B, Chapter 7, Off-Premise Beer Retailer Act, and corresponding City beer license, and only as a
component of a Convenience Store with Fuel Pumps, General Retail, or Manufacturer Alcoholic
Beverage Use.
      "Alcoholic Beverage, Package Agency" means an entity other than the state operating a retail
liquor location to sell packaged liquor for consumption off the premises of the package agency under
(a) an agreement with the Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control, as authorized by the Alcoholic
Beverage Control Commission in accordance with Utah Code Annotated Title 32B, Chapter 2, Part 6,
Package Agency, and (b) corresponding City liquor license.
      "Alcoholic Beverage, Reception Center" means an entity operating under and holding the
required Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control license issued in accordance with Utah Code
Annotated Title 32B, Chapter 6, Part 9, Reception Center License, and corresponding City liquor
license.
      "Alcoholic Beverage, Restaurant (Beer Only)" means an entity operating under and holding the
required Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control license issued in accordance with Utah Code
Annotated Title 32B, Chapter 6, Part 9, Beer-Only Restaurant License, and corresponding City beer
license.
      "Alcoholic Beverage, Restaurant (Limited Service)" means an entity operating under and holding
the required Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control license issued in accordance with Utah Code
Annotated Title 32B, Chapter 6, Part 3, Limited-service Restaurant License, and corresponding City
liquor license.
      "Alcoholic Beverage, Restaurant (Full Service)" means an entity operating under and holding the
required Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control license issued in accordance with Utah Code
Annotated Title 32B, Chapter 6, Part 2, Full-service Restaurant License, and corresponding City liquor
license.
      "Alcoholic Beverage, Special Use (Educational)" means an entity operating under and holding
the required Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control educational use permit issued in accordance
with Utah Code Annotated Title 32B, Chapter 10, Special Use Permit Act, and corresponding City
special-use license.
     "Alcoholic Beverage, Special Use (Industrial/Manufacturing)" means an entity operating under and
holding the required Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control industrial or manufacturing use permit
issued in accordance with Utah Code Annotated Title 32B, Chapter 10, Part 4, Industrial or
Manufacturing Use Permit, and corresponding City special-use license.
      "Alcoholic Beverage, Special Use (Scientific)" means an entity operating under and holding the
required Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control scientific use permit issued in accordance with
Utah Code Annotated Title 32B, Chapter 10, Special Use Permit Act, and corresponding City special-
use license.
      "Alcoholic Beverage, Special Use (Religious)" means an entity operating under and holding the
required Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control religious wine use permit issued in accordance with
Utah Code Annotated Title 32B, Chapter 10, Part 6, Religious Use of Alcoholic Products, and
corresponding City special-use license.




                                                                                                         2
     "Alcoholic Beverage, Tavern" means an entity operating under and holding the required
Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control license for a tavern, issued in accordance with Utah Code
Annotated Title 32B, Chapter 6, Part 7, On-premise Beer Retailer License, and corresponding City
beer license.
     "Alcoholic Beverage, State Liquor Store" means an means a facility established by the Alcoholic
Beverage Control Commission in accordance with Utah Code Annotated Title 32B, Chapter 2, Part 5,
State Store, the for the sale of packaged liquor located on premises owned or leased by the state and
operated by a state employee. State Liquor Store does not include any other defined Use in this
Chapter.
     "All-Terrain Vehicle (ATV), Motorcycle, Personal Watercraft (PWC), Snowmobile Sales and
Service" means the indoor sale or lease of any motorized off-road vehicle fifty (50) inches or less in
overall width, with a dry weight of eight hundred (800) pounds or less, or other similarly sized
motorized vehicles, not including automobiles, trucks, trailers, etc. This Use includes the incidental and
subordinate service of such motorized off-road vehicles but does not include any outdoor storage or
sales.
     "Alley" means a paved Right-of-Way that provides secondary vehicular access and is not
intended for general traffic circulation.
      "Alteration" means any change or rearrangement in the structural parts or design of a Sign,
whether by extending on a side, by increasing in area or height or in moving from one location or
position to another. Alteration does not include the regular repair or maintenance of a Sign.
      "Amusement Device" means any machine, device, or contrivance, not prohibited or declared
unlawful by the City or the state of Utah, designed or intended to be operated or used for amusement
or the playing of a game upon or in exchange for paying a fee or inserting a coin or token.
     "Animal Boarding/Raising (Farm)" means a business primarily engaged in raising or boarding
animals for profit on a farm. An Animal Boarding/Raising (Farm) does not include any other defined
Use in this Chapter.
      "Animal Hospital/Veterinary Office (Small Animal)" means an establishment operated by a
licensed veterinarian, at which small or medium-sized farm animals or household pets are treated
within a completely enclosed Structure. Animal Hospital or Veterinary Office includes the incidental
and subordinate boarding of small animals. An Animal Hospital/Veterinary Office (Small Animal) does
not include any other defined Use in this Chapter.
     "Animal Kennel/Day Care, Commercial" means a facility where three (3) or more pet animals,
owned by another person, are temporarily boarded for pay, trade, barter, commission, or remuneration
of any sort. Commercial Animal Kennels do not include zoos, Veterinary Offices, or Animal Hospitals or
any other defined Use in this Chapter.
     "Antenna" means a transmitting or receiving device used in telecommunications that radiates or
captures radio signals.
      "Antique or Classic Automobile" means an automobile that is at least 25 years old, with enough
historical interest to be collectable and worth preserving or restoring rather than scrapping.
     "Apiary" means a place where beehives are kept and maintained, where bees are raised
primarily for honey. An Apiary does not include any other defined Use in this Chapter.
     "Applicant" means a property Owner, or the property Owner's designee, who submits an Application
regarding the property Owner's land.
     "Application" means a submission required by the City to obtain a Land Use Decision. An
Application does not include a Petition to (a) enact, amend, or repeal a Land Use Regulation; or (b)
modify the General Plan.
      "Architectural Elements" means the unique details and component parts that, together, form the
architectural style of a Structure.




                                                                                                             3
      "Art Gallery" means a business engaged in the exhibition and sale of artwork. Art Gallery does not
include the sale of art supplies or other raw materials used in the creation of artwork or any other defined
Use in this Chapter.
      "Art Studio" means a place where artwork is created. An Art Studio includes, but is not limited to,
a place to paint, sculpt and fire clay, or engrave and work metal into artistic forms. An Art Studio does
not include a place to practice or perform Performance Art or any other defined Use in this Chapter.
      "Assisted Living Facility" means a residential facility, licensed by the state of Utah, with a home-
like setting that provides an array of coordinated supportive personal, health care services, aides in
daily living, social and recreational services, available twenty-four (24) hours per day, to residents who
have been assessed under Utah Department of Health or Department of Human Services regulations
to need any of these services. Assisted Living Facilities create service plans for residents based on
assessment that include:
          1.   Specified services of intermittent nursing care;
          2.   Administration of medication; or
          3.   Support services promoting the resident's independence and self-sufficiency.
An Assisted Living Facility does not include Adult Daycare or Homeless Shelter any other defined Use
within this Chapter.
      "ATM, Kiosk, Vending Machine (Self-Service, Interactive, Outdoors)" means any unattended self-
service device that performs services upon a required payment or command by the user. Such
services include but are not limited to banking or financial functions at a location remote from the
controlling Financial Institution; dispensing anything of value including food, beverage, goods, wares,
merchandise, or services; or posting of notices or advertisements.
     "Auction House" means a Structure or area within a Building used for the public sale of goods,
wares, merchandise, livestock, or equipment to the highest bidder. An Auction House does not include
any other defined Use in this Chapter.
      "Auto, Light Truck, RV, Boat, Trailer Dealerships (Sale, Lease, or Rent)" means a business
engaged in the sale, lease, or rental of automobiles, light trucks, vans, RVs, boats, or trailers and
includes incidental parking of such vehicles, and warranty repair work and other repair services that is
incidental and subordinate to the sale, lease, or rental aspect of the business. Auto, Light Truck, RV,
Boat, Trailer Dealerships (Sale, Lease, or Rent)" does not include any other defined Use in this
Chapter.
      "Auto Auction" means the sale of automobiles though a process in which multiple bidders compete
to acquire a vehicle that is ultimately sold to the person offering the highest price. An Auto Auction does
not include any other defined Use in this Chapter.
      "Auto Body Repair" means a facility for repairing passenger vehicles, light and medium trucks,
and other motor vehicles such as motorcycles, boats, and recreational vehicles. Auto Body Repair
includes auto body painting but does not include any other defined Use in this Chapter.
     "Automotive Restoration" means the process of repairing degraded aspects of Antique or Classic
Automobiles to return them to an "authentic" condition. Automotive Restoration does not include any
other defined Use in this Chapter.
      "Automotive Service and Repair" means a business engaged in the repair, accessorizing, or
maintenance of motor vehicles, trailers, or recreational vehicles. Automotive Service and Repair does not
include Auto Body Repair,or auto dismantling, or salvage, or any other defined Use in this Chapter.
     "Automotive Service Station (Non-Mechanical)" means a business that provides routine
maintenance (windshield, tire, fluids, etc.) for passenger vehicles, while the customer waits on-site. An
Automotive Service Station (Non-Mechanical) does not include any other defined Use in this Chapter.
     "Aviary" means an enclosure specifically constructed to hold live birds in confinement. Aviary
does not include Urban Poultry or any other defined Use in this Chapter.




                                                                                                              4
      "Bail Bonds" means any sole proprietor or entity that: (a) is licensed under Utah Code § 31A-35-
404(1) or (2); (b)(i) is the agent of a surety insurer that sells a bail bond in connection with judicial
proceedings; (ii) pledges the assets of a letter of credit from a Utah depository institution for a bail bond
in connection with judicial proceedings; or (iii) pledges personal or real property, or both, as security for
a bail bond in connection with judicial proceedings; and (c) receives or is promised money or other
things of value for a service described in Subsection b.
     "Bakery, Commercial" means an establishment that makes and sells food products such as bread,
cake, or pastries for large-scale distribution and wholesale. A Commercial Bakery does not include any
other defined Use in this Chapter.
      "Bakery, Neighborhood" means an establishment that is no more than 2,000 square feet, primarily
serving the surrounding neighborhood, that makes and sells food products such as bread, cake, and
pastries. A Neighborhood Bakery does not include any other defined Use in this Chapter.
     "Berm" means an earthen mound designed to provide visual interest on a site, screen undesirable
views, reduce noise, or fulfill other similar purposes.
      "Billboard" means a Detached Sign that is designed or intended to direct attention to a business,
product or service that is not sold, offered, or existing on the property where the Sign is located. A
Billboard is an outdoor advertising Structure as defined by state statutes. The following also apply to
Billboards:
          1.   "Nonconforming Billboard" means an existing Billboard that is located in a zoning district
               or otherwise situated, sized, or constructed in a way that would not be permitted by the
               provisions of this Title.
          2.   "Embellishment" means an extension of the Billboard resulting in increased square
               footage as part of an artistic design to convey a specific message or advertisement.
     "Biotech/Biolife" means applied science that uses living organisms and their derivatives to produce
products and processes. Biotech/Biolife uses are conducted in a controlled office/lab setting.
Biotech/Biolife does not include any business engaged in manufacturing, processing, or packaging
alcohol, pharmaceutical drugs, or any Cannabis, or tobacco products or any other defined Use in this
Chapter.
    "Block" means the aggregate of Lots, Parcels, and Right-of-Ways, other than Alleys or lanes,
bounded on all sides by Streets.
     "Blood/Plasma Donation Center" means an appointment only facility, that is not accessory to a
Medical Clinic, where blood and/or plasma is donated or sold, and then distributed for use in medical or
other similar products.
     "Buffer" means an open space, Landscaped Area, fence, wall, Berm, or any combination thereof
used to physically separate or screen one Use or property from another so as to visually shield or block
noise, lights, or other nuisances.
     "Build-to Standard" means the area of a Lot in which the Primary Façade of the Main Building must
be located and is parallel to the Front or Corner Property Line. The Build-To Standard defines the area
in which the locations of Building fronts can vary within a specified range.
     "Buildable Area" means the area of a Lot—excluding wetlands, steep slopes, and
easements— available for construction after the minimum Yard, parking, and open space
requirements of this Title have been met.
     "Building" means any Structure having a roof supported by columns or walls, for the occupancy or
enclosure of persons, animals, or chattel.
     "Building, Elevation" means the entire wall surface on one side of a Building, measured as the full
horizontal distance of a Façade wall from Grade to the underside of an overhanging eave or cornice.
      “Building Footprint” means the perimeter of a building at the outer edge of the outside walls of the
building, including cantilevered portions of a building.




                                                                                                                5
     "Building Height " means the vertical distance of a Structure measured from the average of the
midpoint of the two (2) tallest elevations, as measured from adjacent Grade to the highest point of the
coping of a flat roof, the deck line of a mansard roof, or the midpoint between ridge and eaves of a
sloped roof.
     "Building, Historic" means any Building or Structure that is historically or architecturally significant
according to the requirements found in Section 17.03.160.
      "Building, Main or Primary" means the principal Building, or one of the principal Buildings on a
Lot, that contains the Primary Use on the Lot.
      "Building Line" means the line circumscribing the Buildable Area of a Lot in a vertical plane that
intersects the ground and the heavens.
     "Building Permit" means a permit issued by the City's Community Development Department
authorizing Construction Activity on a Property or Lot.
      “Canopy Structures” means all structures, canopies, temporary carports, membrane structures or
other canopies that are temporary coverings of plastic, cloth, nylon, or other similar materials supported
by a frame, including, but not limited to, prefabricated canopies available from retail outlets.
      “Carport” means a roofed Structure enclosed on not more than three sides and providing space
for the parking of motor vehicles.
      "Car Wash" means a Building used for washing and cleaning motor vehicles and other light
duty equipment. Car Wash includes motor vehicle and other light equipment interior detailing
services, but does not include any other defined Use in this Chapter.
      "Change of Use, Building/Fire" means where the current International Building Code (IBC) or
International Fire Code (IFC) required a greater degree of safety, accessibility, structural strength, fire
protection, means of egress, ventilation or sanitation than is existing in the current building or structure.
     "Change of Use, Zoning" means that change of one land use category to another as shown in the
Land Use Matrix.
     "Child Care" means the provision, day or night, of supplemental parental care, instruction and
supervision for a non-related child or children, on a regular basis, and for less than 24 hours a day. Child
Care does not include babysitting services on a casual, non-recurring nature or in the child's home, nor
cooperative, reciprocal child care by a group of parents in their respective domiciles.
          1.   "Child Care, In-Home Babysitting" means the provision of child care for eight (8) or fewer
               children within a Dwelling or within a commercial Building outside of residential zoning
               districts.
          2.   "Child Care, Family" means the provision of child care for up to eight (8) children, including
               the provider's children who are under the age of 18, within the provider's primary residence.
     "Child Care Center" means a Building, including outside play areas, used for the provision of Child
Care for more than four (4) children for less than 24 hours a day, that is not a primary residence. A Child
Care Center does not include any other defined Use within this Chapter.
     "City" means South Salt Lake City.
     "City Building" means any Building or space within a Building that is owned or operated by the City.
     "City Council" means the legislative body of the South Salt Lake City government.
      "Clear View Area" means that portion of a Corner Lot lying within a triangular area formed by a
diagonal line connecting lines located at the curb line 30 feet (30') from the projected intersection of
such curb lines. Where no curb exists, the Clear View Area shall include that portion of a Corner Lot
lying within a triangular area formed by a diagonal line connecting lines located at the Property Line 20
feet (20') from the intersection of said Property Line. Where Property Lines of adjacent properties
extend into the Right-of-Way, the calculations shall be made from the edge of the improved Right-of-
Way for a distance of 30 feet (30').




                                                                                                                6
     "Code" means the City of South Salt Lake Municipal Code.
      "Collocation" means locating a wireless communications facility on an existing structure, tower, or
Building in a manner that precludes the need for that wireless communications facility to be located on a
freestanding Structure of its own.
      "Commercial Repair Services" means a business primarily engaged in the provision of repair
services to individuals, households, and/or other businesses, but excluding automotive and equipment
repair and any other defined Use in this Chapter.
    "Common Wall" means a dividing partition between two (2) adjoining Buildings that is shared by the
occupants of each residence or business. Also known as a "party wall."
     "Community Garden" means an area of land managed and maintained by an identifiable group of
community members used to grow and harvest food crop, for personal or group use. Generally
operated as not for profit. A Community Garden does not include any business engaged in
manufacturing, processing, or packaging alcohol, pharmaceutical drugs, or any Cannabis products, or
any other defined Use in this Chapter.
     "Community Location", for the purposes of compliance with state law regulating Tobacco Specialty
Retail establishments, means a:
          1.   public or private kindergarten, Elementary, middle, junior high, or high School;
          2.   licensed Child Care facility or Preschool;
          3.   trade or Technical school;
          4.   Place of Worship;
          5.   public Library;
          6.   public playground;
          7.   public park;
          8.   youth center or other space used primarily for youth-oriented activities;
          9.   public Recreational Center;
          10. public arcade; or
          11. for a new license issued on or after July 1, 2018, a Homeless Shelter; or
          12   for a new license issued on or after July 1, 2024, a Family Interim Non-congregate
               Children Housing Facility.
      "Compatible" or "Compatibility" means the characteristics of different Uses or designs that
integrate with and relate to one another to maintain and/or enhance the context of a surrounding area
or neighborhood. Elements affecting Compatibility include, but are not limited to, height, Scale, mass
and bulk of Building, pedestrian and vehicular circulation, parking, Landscaping and architecture,
topography, environmentally sensitive Areas, and Building patterns.
      “Cosmetology” means a business that primarily provides hair coloring or trimming services for a
fee. Cosmetology may perform other personal hygiene related services such as manicures, pedicures,
or make-up application. It may also include dry styling of hair. Cosmetology does not include any
massage related services or a Day Spa.
      "Construction Activity" means (a) all grading, excavation, construction, grubbing, mining, or other
Development that materially disturbs or changes the natural vegetation, Grade, or existing Structure; or
(b) the act of adding an addition to an existing Structure, or the erection of a new principal or Accessory
Structure on a Lot or Property.
     "Condominium" means the ownership of a single unit in a multi-unit project together with an
undivided interest in the common areas and facilities of the property.
     "Construction Codes" means the nationally recognized Construction Codes adopted by the state of




                                                                                                              7
Utah.
     "Contributory Structure" means a Structure that was built within the historic period (50 years or
older), retains most of its original appearance without major changes to the structure, is eligible for the
National Register because of architectural significance, and is deemed to contribute to the Historic and
Landmark district by the Historic and Landmark Commission.
     "Convenience Store with Fuel Pumps" means a business that primarily sells petroleum products
to consumers as well as incidental and subordinate sales of vehicle-related products, tobacco
products, alcohol, food, and/or beverages. A Convenience Store with Fuel Pumps does not include
any other defined Use in this Chapter.
        "Courtyard" means an outdoor area enclosed by a Building on at least two (2) sides and open to the
sky.
      "Coverage" means that percentage of the Parcel or Lot Area covered by the Building. This term can
also be referred to as "Building Coverage."
      "Crime Prevention Through Environmental Design (CPTED)" means the set of design principles for
creating safer built environments by incorporating natural surveillance, access control, territorial
reinforcement, a sense of ownership, management, and maintenance.
      "Crematory/Embalming Facility" means a business, properly licensed by the state, that is devoted
to cremation and/or embalming of the dead, but does not include facilities for burial, internment, body
viewing, or funeral services or any other defined Use in this Chapter.
      "Day Spa" means a business that provides at least four (4) distinct therapeutic and/or personal
grooming services—performed by a state licensed barber, cosmetologist, electrologist, esthetician, nail
technician, massage therapist, or acupuncturist—and does not provide any service for which a state
license is not required or any other defined Use in this Chapter.
      "Day Treatment Center" means a state licensed outpatient treatment center that provides care to
four (4) or more persons who are unrelated to the Owner or provider and have emotional,
psychological, physical, or behavioral dysfunctions, impairments, or chemical dependencies for fewer
than 24 hours a day. A Day Treatment Center does not include Adult Day Care or a Homeless Shelter
any other defined Use within this Chapter.
     "Dedication/Dedicated" means the intentional transfer of land by the Owner to the City for public
Use and/or ownership.
     "Density" means the intensity or number of non-residential and Residential Uses expressed in
terms of unit equivalents per acre or Lot or units per acre. Density is a function of both the number and
type of Dwelling Units and/or non-residential units and the land area.
        "Development" means any Building activity or clearing of land as an adjunct of construction.
     "Drive Aisle" means the area within a Parking Lot, garage, or Structure providing access to and
from Parking Stalls.
     "Drive-up Window" means a Building opening, including windows, doors, or mechanical devices,
through which the occupants of a motor vehicle receive or obtain a product or service.
      "Dry Cleaning/Laundromat" means a business that launders or dry cleans garments, draperies, etc.,
that are dropped off directly by the customer, or a business where articles are dropped off, sorted, and
picked up, but not where laundering or dry cleaning occurs. A Dry Cleaning/Laundromat does not include
any other defined Use in this Chapter.
        "Dwelling" means any Building, or portion thereof, that is used for long-term Residential Use.
      "Dwelling, Employee Housing" means a Dwelling Unit, located within a mixed-use Structure that
shall be available for long term lease for employees of the business located within the same mixed-use
Structure and contains a shared kitchen/dining area and shared restroom/shower facilities for up to
four individuals per Dwelling Unit. Dwelling, Employee Housing is for employees only and shall not be
leased to individuals not employed in the business located within the same mixed-use Structure.




                                                                                                              8
Dwelling. Employee Housing does not include short-term rentals or any other defined Use in this
Chapter.
     "Dwelling, Live/Work" and "Live/Work" means an integrated Dwelling Unit and workspace within
the Townhome Overlay Zone, designed to accommodate joint residential occupancy and work activity,
and that is occupied and utilized by the person or Family residing in the attached Dwelling Unit. A
Live/Work Dwelling incorporates the Residential Use above the attached workspace. A Live/Work
Dwelling does not include any workspace used for Massage Therapy or any other defined Use in this
Chapter.
     "Dwelling, Multi-Family" and "Multi-Family" means a Building containing fifty (50) or more
independent and individual Dwelling Units, or equivalent residential units, including units that are
located one over another. Dwelling, Multi-Family does not include any other defined Use within this
Chapter.
     “Dwelling, Primary” means the principal Building, or one of the principal Buildings on a Lot, that
contains the Primary Use on the Lot.
     "Dwelling, Single-Family" and "Single-Family" means a Building containing one Dwelling Unit
occupied by one Family that is not attached to any other Dwelling and is surrounded by open space or
Yards.
     "Dwelling, Townhome" and "Townhome" means a Dwelling Unit, located on its own Lot or a
Condominium, that shares one or more Common Walls with one or more Dwelling Units. Townhome
Dwellings are individually owned and do not share common floor/ceilings with other Dwelling Units. A
Townhome Structure may include a ground floor commercial Use below the Dwelling Unit if such
commercial Use is both allowed in the base zone and is specifically addressed in an approved
Development Agreement.
     "Dwelling Unit" means a Building or portion thereof, with sleeping and kitchen facilities for the
exclusive Use of up to four (4) unrelated persons or one (1) Family. A Dwelling Unit does not include a
Hotel, Motel, Lodge, Nursing Home, or Homeless Shelter any other defined Use within this Chapter.
    “Dwelling Unit, Accessory” (“ADU”) means an additional, self-contained housing unit that is
secondary to the Primary Dwelling including Internal ADUs and External ADUs.
     "Dwelling Unit, Internal Accessory” means an ADU created:
     1. Within a Primary Dwelling;
     2. Within the footprint of the Primary Dwelling at the time the Internal ADU is created; and
     3. For the purpose of offering a long-term rental of 30 consecutive days or longer.
      “Dwelling Unit, External Accessory” means an ADU that is not part of the Primary Dwelling’s
footprint, or sharing a common wall.
      "Education, After School (Children)" means developmental or educational programs for children
that occur outside the typical school day. A Children’s After School Education Facility does not include
any other defined Use in this Chapter.
     "Education, Elementary or Secondary" means any school, that meets state requirements for
Elementary or Secondary Education. An Elementary or Secondary Education Facility does not include
any other defined Use in this Chapter.
      "Education, Higher (Public)" means a public institution for higher learning—beyond high school—
that grants associate's or bachelor's degrees. Public Higher Education includes accredited Community
Colleges that grant Certificates of Completion in business or technical fields but does not include any
other defined Use in this Chapter.
     "Education, Preschool" means a school for the instruction of children prior to entrance into
kindergarten. A Preschool Education Facility does not include any other defined Use in this Chapter.
     "Education, Technical" means a secondary or higher education facility that primarily teaches skills




                                                                                                           9
that prepare students for jobs in a trade. Technical Education includes trade and vocational school but
does not include any other defined Use in this Chapter.
     "Electronic Cigarette Product" means the same as that term is defined in UCA Section 76-10-101,
and as may be amended.
      "Electronic Message Center" means a mechanism or device that uses a combination of lights or
lighted panels that are controlled electronically to produce words, symbols, or messages that may flash,
travel, or scintillate within a given panel area.
      "Employment Agency/Temporary Staffing" means a commercial organization that finds jobs for
people seeking them, finds people to fill jobs that are open, or supplies employees to other businesses
on a temporary basis. An Employment Agency/Temporary Staffing Use does not include any other
defined Use in this Chapter.
      "Equestrian Facility" means a commercial horse, donkey, or mule facility consisting of detached
Buildings designed and used to care for such animals. An Equestrian Facility includes horse ranches,
boarding stables, riding schools, and exhibition facilities but does not include any other defined Use in
this Chapter.
      "Equipment Sales, Service, and Rental (Heavy and Farm)" means a business primarily engaged
in the sale or rental of tools, trucks, tractors, construction equipment, agricultural implements, and
similar industrial equipment. Equipment Sales, Service, and Rental includes accessory storage,
maintenance, and service for such equipment. Equipment Sales, Service, and Rental (Heavy and
Farm) does not include any other defined Use in this Chapter.
      "Escort Service" means any person who furnishes or arranges for an escort to accompany
another individual for: (a) companionship; and (b)(i) a salary; (ii) a fee; (iii) a commission; (iv) for hire;
(v) for profit; or (vi) any amount similar to an amount listed in this Title.
      "Façade" means that portion of any exterior elevation of a Structure extending from Grade to the
top of the parapet, wall, or eaves, and extending the entire width of the Structure's elevations.
     "Façade, Distinctly Different Primary" means a Primary Façade that materially differs from other
Primary Façades in the same Subdivision. Distinctly Different Primary Façades do not include mirror
images.
     "Façade, Primary" means the Façade parallel to the Street the Building derives its Street address
from and includes the primary entrance for the Building.
     "Family" means (a) one (1) person living alone or two (2) or more persons related by blood,
marriage, or adoption, according to the laws of the state of Utah; or (b) a group not to exceed four (4)
unrelated persons living together as a single housekeeping unit for which a lawfully located off-Street
Parking Stall is provided for each person.
     "Farmers Market" means the sale of fresh agricultural products directly to the consumer at an
open- air market sponsored by the City of South Salt Lake. A Farmer’s Market does not include any
other defined Use in this Chapter.
     "Final Grading" means the last stage of grading soil or gravel prior to Landscaping, the installation
of concrete or bituminous paving, or other required final surfacing material.
     "Financial Institution" means the provision of financial or banking services to consumers or clients.
Financial Institution does not include a Non-Depository Institution such as: Check Cashing, Title Loan,
Payday Loan, Pawnshop, or Precious Metal Recycling or any other defined Use in this Chapter.
      “Family Interim Non-congregate Children Housing Facility” means a facility that is owned,
operated, or contracted for operations, by a government entity or a charitable, nonprofit organization
that provides free, temporary (on average, less than one year), non-congregate housing to families,
which must include at least one minor child or one young-adult child who is still engaged as a student
in the K-12 public school system, who are experiencing homelessness while the parent(s) or
guardian(s) obtain work, job skills, or otherwise take steps to stabilize the family’s long-term housing
circumstances. A Family Interim Non- congregate Children Housing Facility does not include any other




                                                                                                                 10
defined Use in this Chapter.
     "Fitness Center" means a commercial establishment providing space within a Building, or a portion
thereof, for fitness classes, martial arts classes or competition, dance classes, exercise equipment, game
courts, swimming facilities, saunas, showers, and lockers. A Fitness Center does not include any other
defined Use in this Chapter.
      "Floor Area" means the sum of the gross horizontal areas of each Story of a Building or Buildings,
measured from the exterior faces of the exterior walls or from the centerline of Common Walls.
Basements, interior balconies and mezzanines, elevator shafts, stairwells, and enclosed Porches are
included in Floor Area. Also referred to as "Gross Floor Area."
      "Food Processing (Large-Scale)" means an establishment containing a full commercial
kitchen, where food is processed or otherwise prepared for eventual human consumption. Food
Processing (Large-Scale) does not include any other defined Use in this Chapter.
      "Food Processing (Small-Scale)" means an establishment containing a full commercial kitchen,
where food is processed or otherwise prepared for human consumption, within a facility 3,000 square
feet or less in size. Food Processing (Small-Scale) does not include any other defined Use in this
Chapter.
      "Food Truck/Food Trailer " means a fully enclosed food service establishment on a motor vehicle
or on a trailer that a motor vehicle pulls to transport and from which a Food Truck Vendor, standing
within the frame of the vehicle, prepares, cooks, sells, or serves food or beverages for immediate
human consumption.
     "Food Truck Park " means three (3) or more Food Trucks or Trailers that congregate at an
established private property location to offer food or beverages for sale to the public.
     "Food Truck/Food Trailer Vendor" means a person who prepares, sells, cooks, or serves food or
beverages for immediate human consumption from a Food Truck or Trailer.
     "Frontage" means that portion of a Lot abutting a Right-of-Way that provides access to the Lot
and is ordinarily regarded as the front of the Lot.
      "Funeral/Mortuary Home" means a state licensed establishment for the storage of dead human
bodies prior to autopsy, burial, cremation, or release to survivors. A Funeral/Mortuary Home also
includes the arrangement and management of funerals and may include accessory caretaker facilities.
A Funeral/Mortuary Home does not include any other defined Use in this Chapter.
     "Garage, Attached" means a Building or Structure, or portion thereof, used or designed to be
used for the parking and storage of motor vehicles that shares a Common Wall with the Primary
Structure and is incidental and subordinate to the Primary Use.
     "Garage, Detached" means a detached Structure that is on the same Lot and incidental and
subordinate to a Primary Building or Primary Use, has legal vehicular access from a public Right-of-Way,
and is used and designed for the parking and storage of vehicles.
     "Garage, Front Loading" means a Building designed and used for parking vehicles, that is accessed
from the front of the Building via a public or private Right-of-Way.
     "Garage, Rear Loading" means a Building designed and used for parking vehicles, that is accessed
from the rear of the Building from a Private Street, Alley, or driveway.
      "Good Cause" means providing positive benefits and mitigating negative impacts, determined on
a case by case basis to include such things as: providing public amenities and benefits, resolving
existing issues and non-conformities, addressing issues related to Density, promoting excellent and
sustainable design, utilizing best planning and design practices, preserving the character of the
neighborhood and of the City and furthering the health, safety, and welfare of the South Salt Lake
community.
     "Grade" means (a) the lowest point of elevation of the finished surface of the ground, paving, or
sidewalk between the Building and the Property Line; or (b) when the Property Line is more than five




                                                                                                         11
(5) feet from the Building, between the Building and a line five (5) feet from the Building.
      "Grooming Services (Pets)" means a commercial facility where domestic animals are bathed,
clipped, or brushed for the purpose of enhancing their aesthetic value or health. Grooming Services
(Pets) does not include any other defined Use in this Chapter.
      "Group Home" an establishment that provides residence to individuals with prolonged care needs,
is located in a residential area, maintains the residential character of the area, is properly licensed by
the state and the City and provides an on-site caregiver for purposes of providing medical and physical
assistance due to age and/or disability of the tenant(s). A Group Home does not include a Homeless
Shelter any other defined Use within this Chapter, or a treatment facility for persons who are actively
abusing drugs.
      "Guaranty" means a security to ensure completion of work other than public Landscaping and
Infrastructure Improvements.
     "Hard Surface" means a surface covered with concrete, brick, asphalt, or other Impervious Material.
     "Haunted House" means a City licensed business that is advertised to the public as a Haunted
House, and for a fee, patrons are directed through a Building, tent, or other similar Structure that contains
Halloween-related displays, acts, exhibits, live performances, or other attractions intended to entertain
or amuse patrons. A Haunted House does not include a Sexually Oriented Business. A Haunted
House does not include any other defined Use in this Chapter.
     "Historic Building" means any Building listed in the National Register of Historic Places, the Utah
State Register of Historic Sites, or designated as a Historic Building by the City Council.
     "Historic and Landmark Commission" means the Planning Commission.
      "Home Craft Production" means the production of items, materials, or wares, manufactured in a
Dwelling or Accessory Structure that does not create an adverse impact on the surrounding
neighborhood. Home Craft Production includes but is not limited to: laser engraving, etching and
cutting, 3D printing, wood and metal work, jewelry making, textile arts, ceramics, light furniture
assembly, and small Cottage Food Production in a Dwelling as defined by the state of Utah and
subject to approval by the Salt Lake County Health Department.
     "Home Occupation, Category I" means any business carried on entirely within a Dwelling by
occupants of such Dwelling that is clearly incidental and secondary to the Residential Use of the
Dwelling, has no outside impacts on the neighborhood in which it is located, and does not change the
character of the Dwelling or the neighborhood in which it is located. Home Occupation, Category I
does not involve any clients/customers going to the Dwelling.
      "Home Occupation, Category II" means any business carried on entirely within a Dwelling by
occupants of such Dwelling that is clearly incidental and secondary to the Residential Use of the
Dwelling, has no outside impacts on the neighborhood in which it is located, and does not change the
character of the Dwelling or the neighborhood in which it is located. Home Occupation, Category II
includes clients/customers going to the Dwelling.
      "Homeless Shelter" means a facility that is professionally designed, constructed, and managed to
safely provide homeless individuals temporary overnight accommodation, on a site selected by and
funded through the Utah Homeless Coordinating Committee, with the concurrence of the housing and
community development division of the Department of Workforce Services. A Homeless Shelter is not
Adult Day Care or Day Treatment and does not include any other defined Use within this Chapter.
     "Horticulture/Produce Sales" means the commercial production of fruits, vegetables, flowers,
nursery stock, or cultured sod.
      "Hospital, Specialty" means a business, licensed by the state of Utah, that meets the state
definitions for Rehabilitation, Long-Term Acute Care, Orthopedic, or Critical Access Specialty Hospitals.
A Specialty Hospital does not include any other defined Use in this Chapter.
      "Hotel" means a Building containing 15 or more sleeping rooms, each accessed from within the
Building, for the occupancy of guests on a nightly basis for a fee. A Hotel is does not a Homeless Shelter




                                                                                                           12
include any other defined Use within this Chapter.
      "Hotel, Extended-Stay" means a Building containing 15 or more sleeping rooms, each accessed
from within the Building, for the occupancy of guests on a nightly basis for a fee that also contain
kitchen facilities for food preparation including, but not limited to, refrigerators, stoves, and ovens.
Extended Stay Hotel does not include a Motel or a Homeless Shelter any other defined Use within this
Chapter.
     "Impervious Surface" means concrete or asphalt.
      "Improvement Completion Assurance" means a cash deposit, or other financially equivalent
security to ensure the proper completion of public Landscaping or an Infrastructure Improvement
required as a condition precedent to: (a) recording a Subdivision Plat; or (b) Development of a
commercial, industrial, Mixed-Use, Condominium, or Multi-Family Dwelling project.
      "Improvement Warranty" means an Applicant's unconditional warranty that the Applicant's
installed and accepted Landscaping or Infrastructure Improvement: (a) complies with the
municipality's written standards for design, materials, and workmanship; and (b) will not fail in any
material respect, as a result of poor workmanship or materials, within the Improvement Warranty
Period.
      "Improvement Warranty Period" means a period: (a) no later than one year after the City's
acceptance of required Landscaping; or (b) no later than one year after the City's acceptance of
required infrastructure, unless the City: (i) determines for Good Cause that a one-year period would be
inadequate to protect the public health, safety, and welfare; and (ii) has substantial evidence, on
record: (A) of prior poor performance by the Applicant; or (B) that the area upon which the
infrastructure will be constructed contains suspect soil and the City has not otherwise required the
Applicant to mitigate the suspect soil.
      "Impound and Tow Lot" means a Parcel of land or a Structure that is used for the temporary (less
than 30 days) storage of motor vehicles awaiting insurance adjustment, transport to a repair shop, or
to be claimed by titleholders or their agents. Impound and Tow Lot does not include the permanent
storage of motor vehicles.
      "Infrastructure Completion Agreement" means an agreement between the City and a property
Owner to install improvements secured by a cash deposit or another financial-equivalent approved
method, in an amount corresponding to the City's estimate to install required Landscaping and
Infrastructure Improvements.
     "Infrastructure Improvement" means permanent infrastructure that an Applicant must install: (a)
pursuant to published installation and inspection specifications for Public Improvements; and (b) as a
condition of: (i) recording a Subdivision Plat; or (ii) Development of a commercial, industrial, Mixed-Use,
Condominium, or Multi-Family Dwelling project.
     "Jail" means a state licensed facility for judicially required detention or incarceration of people,
where inmates and detainees are under 24-hour supervision by professionals, except when on
approved leave. A Jail does not include any other defined Use in this Chapter.
     "Juvenile Detention Facility" means a state operated facility, for judicially required detention of
delinquent juveniles. A Juvenile Detention Facility does not include any other defined Use in this Chapter.
     "Landscaping" means the finishing and adornment of unpaved Yard areas. Landscaping includes
any combination of living elements such as grass, trees, shrubs, and flowers, that are generally not
considered to be weeds or noxious plants. Landscaping may also include rocks, water features,
benches, Berms, or other similar structural features that create an attractive and pleasing
environment.
       "Landscape Plan" means a plan clearly and accurately depicting the proposed location, type, and
size of new and existing trees, shrubs, and ground cover to be planted on the site and a complete water
efficient irrigation system plan, pursuant to Chapter 17.06 of the Municipal Code.
     "Landscaped Area" means the entire Lot or Parcel, less the Building footprint, driveways, non-




                                                                                                            13
irrigated portions of Parking Lots, hardscape (such as decks and patios), and other Impervious Surfaces.
Water features are included in the meaning of Landscaped Area.
    "Land Use Decision" means an administrative decision of a land use authority regarding: (a) a Land
Use Permit; (b) an Application; or (c) the enforcement of a Land Use Regulation, Land Use Permit, or
Development agreement.
    "Land Use Decision, Final" means the written decision of the appeal authority regarding a Land
Use Decision.
       "Land Use Map" means the map adopted by the City Council identifying the location of all land use
districts within the City.
    "Land Use Matrix" means the table of land use categories and land use districts located within
Chapter 17.03 of the Municipal Code.
     "Land Use Permit" means a permit issued by the land use authority.
      "Land Use Regulation" means an ordinance, law, map, resolution, specification, fee, or rule, in
any provision of the South Salt Lake Municipal Code, that governs the Use or Development of land,
including the adoption or amendment of a Land Use Map.
      "Lattice Tower" means a self-supporting, multi-sided, open steel frame Structure used to support
telecommunications equipment.
      "Library" means a public, nonprofit Building constructed to house literary, musical, artistic, or
reference materials. A Library does not include any other defined Use in this Chapter.
     "Live Plant Material" means any combination of living elements such as turf grass, ornamental
grass, shrubs, trees, and flowers that are generally not considered to be weeds or noxious plants.
     "Lot" means a tract of land described as such in a recorded Subdivision Plat.
     "Lot Area" means the total area contained within a Lot, typically expressed in square feet or acres.
     "Lot, Corner" means a Lot situated on two (2) or more improved public or Private Streets, the
     interior
angle of such intersection not exceeding 135 degrees (135°).
     "Lot Depth" means the minimum distance measured from the Front Property Line to the Rear
Property Line of the same Lot.
     "Lot, Interior" means a Lot that fronts on a Street, other than a Corner Lot.
     "Lot Line" means any line defining the boundaries of a Lot.
      "Lot Line Adjustment" means a relocation of a Lot Line boundary between adjoining Lots or
Parcels, whether or not the Lots are located in the same Subdivision, in accordance with UCA § 10-9a-
608, with the consent of the Owners of record. A Lot Line Adjustment does not authorize the relocation
of a boundary line that:
          1.   Creates an additional Lot; or
          2.   Constitutes a Subdivision.
      "Lot, Through/Double Frontage" means an Interior Lot with Frontage on two (2) approximately
parallel public or private Rights-of-Way, excluding an Alley.
      "Low Power Radio Services Facility" means an unmanned Structure which consists of equipment
used primarily for the transmission, reception, or transfer of voice or data through radio wave or
wireless transmissions.
      "Maintenance Facility, Vehicle/Transit" means any Building, premises, or land upon which a unit of
government: (a) services or maintains motor vehicles or transit equipment; or (b) stores vehicles or
equipment used for servicing off-site facilities or infrastructure. A Maintenance Facility, Vehicle/Transit
Facility does not include any other defined Use in this Chapter.




                                                                                                          14
      "Manufactured Home" means a transportable, factory-built Dwelling Unit constructed on or after
June 15, 1976, in one or more sections, which: (a) in the traveling mode, is eight feet or more in width
or 40 feet or more in length, or when erected on site, is at least 400 square feet; and (b) is designed to
be used as a Dwelling with a permanent foundation, connected to the required utilities, and includes
the plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical systems.
      "Manufactured Home Park" means any area or tract of land used or designed to accommodate two
(2) or more Manufactured or Mobile Homes, for Dwelling or sleeping purposes, regardless of whether a
fee is paid for such accommodation.
      "Manufacturing, Major" means the manufacturing, fabrication, processing, or assembly of
materials in a raw form in a manner that creates greater than usual amounts of smoke, gas, odor,
dust, sound, or other objectionable influences that might be obnoxious to persons conducting business
on-site or on an adjacent site. Major Manufacturing does not include any business engaged in
manufacturing, processing, or packaging alcohol, pharmaceutical drugs, or any Cannabis, or tobacco
products, or any other defined Use in this Chapter.
     "Manufacturing, Minor" means any business engaged in research and development,
manufacturing, processing, fabrication, packaging, or assembly of goods that do not create excessive
amounts of smoke, gas, odor, dust, sound, or other objectionable influences that might be obnoxious to
persons conducting business on site or on an adjacent site. Minor Manufacturing does not include any
business engaged in manufacturing, processing, or packaging alcohol, pharmaceutical drugs, or any
Cannabis, or tobacco products, or any other defined Use in this Chapter.
      "Massage Therapy" means a business, located within a licensed Medical Office, where state
licensed massage therapists, physical therapists, medical doctors, or chiropractors, perform
nonmedical and nonsurgical manipulative exercises on the muscle or tissue of the human body for
other than cosmetic or beautifying purposes. Massage Therapy does not include Reiki or any other
defined Use in this Chapter.
    "Master Plan" means the Site Plan, elevations, and regulations approved by the City for a specific
Master Planned Mixed-Use Development.
      "Material, Primary" means any material that occupies at least 60 percent of the exterior Façade(s)
of a Building or Structure.
    "Material, Secondary" means any material that occupies no more than 20 percent of the exterior
Façade(s) of a Building or Structure.
      "Mixed-Use" and "Mixed-Use Development" means a Development project that includes a
Residential Use combined with one or more of the following Uses: Retail, service, or office; that
integrates critical massing of physical and functional components into a coherent plan that promotes
walkability through uninterrupted pedestrian connections; and reduces traffic and parking impacts.
      "Mobile Home" means a factory assembled structure or structures equipped with the necessary
service connections and made so as to be readily movable as a unit or units on its (theirs) own running
gear and designed to be used as a dwelling unit(s) without a permanent foundation. A modular home
transported on wheels to its foundation shall be considered a Mobile Home.
     "Monopole" means a single, self-supporting, cylindrical pole that acts as the support Structure for
Antennae.
      "Monopole, Major" means a Monopole with Antennae or Antenna support Structures, which
exceed two feet (2') in width, but not more than 15 feet in width, and with a maximum vertical length of
eight feet (8'), viewed from the same elevation as the Antennae and Antenna support Structure.




                                                                                                           15
     "Monopole, Minor" means a Monopole with Antennae and Antenna support Structures, which do
not exceed two feet (2') in width and ten feet (10') in vertical length, viewed from the same elevation as
the Antennae and Antenna support Structure.




      "Motel" means a Building or series of Buildings in which temporary, over-night accommodation is
offered for a fee, that provides direct independent access to, and adjoining parking for, each rental unit. A
Motel does not include any other defined Use within this Chapter.
     "Movie Studio/Sound Stage" means a Building primarily used for motion picture, television, video,
sound, computer, and other communications media production, including the construction and use of
indoor sets. A Movie Studio or Sound Stage does not include a Sexually Oriented Business or any
other defined Use in this Chapter.
      "Museum" means a Building or group of Buildings that house objects of cultural, historical, artistic,
or scientific interest. A Museum does not include any other defined Use in this Chapter.
     "Nature Center" means an establishment designed expressly for and used principally to educate




                                                                                                          16
and connect visitors with the natural environment. A Nature Center does not include any other defined
Use in this Chapter.
     "Noncomplying Structure" means a Structure that legally existed before its current land use
designation and because of one or more subsequent Land Use Regulation changes, does not conform to
Setback, height restrictions, or other regulations, excluding those regulations that govern the Use of land.
      "Nonconforming Use" means a Use of land that: (a) legally existed before its current land use
designation; (b) has been maintained continuously since the time the Land Use Regulations governing
the land changed; and (c) because of one or more subsequent Land Use Regulations changes, does
not conform to the regulations that now govern the Use of land.
      "Non-Contributory Structure" means a Structure that is not contributing or is ineligible for registry
to the Historic and Landmark District, as deemed by the Historic and Landmark Commission, or as a
result of a historic survey by a certified architectural historian. Non-Contributory Structure status is
typically due to the Structure not being built during the historic period (50 years or older), having major
alterations or additions, and/or the Structure no longer retains historic integrity.
      "Non-Depository Institution" means a business, other than a Financial Institution, that is
registered by the state of Utah pursuant to the Check Cashing and Title Lending Registration Act.
Included in Non- Depository Institutions:
          1.   "Check Cashing Business" means a person or business that, for compensation, engages
               in cashing a check for consideration or extending a Deferred Deposit Loan. Check
               Cashing does not include depository institutions, as defined by the state of Utah, Financial
               Institutions, or a Retail seller engaged primarily in the business of selling goods or services
               to Retail buyers that cash checks or issue money orders for a minimum flat fee not
               exceeding one
               percent of the check or one dollar ($1.00) as a service fee that is incidental to its
               main purpose or business.
          2.   "Payday Loan Business" means an establishment providing loans to individuals in
               exchange for personal checks or assignment of wages as collateral.
          3.   "Title Loan Business" means an establishment providing short-term loans to individuals in
               exchange for the title of a motor vehicle, motor home, or other motor vehicle as collateral.
          4.   "Deferred Deposit Loans" means a business that conducts transactions where a person
               presents to a check casher a check written on that person's account or provides written or
               electronic authorization to a check casher to affect a debit from that person's account using
               an electronic payment and the check casher provides the maker an amount of money that
               is equal to the face value of the check or the amount of the debit less any fee or interest
               charged for the transaction and agrees not to cash the check or process the debit until a
               specific date.
A Non-Depository Institution does not include any other defined Use in this Chapter.
        "Nursery, Commercial" means a Business that grows and sells trees, shrubs, flowers, ground cover,
and other similar plants. A Commercial Nursery also includes the sale of related products, including
fertilizers, mulch, and landscape decoration. A Commercial Nursery does not include growing or selling
federally controlled substances. A Commercial Nursery does not include any other defined Use in this
Chapter.
       "Nursing Home" means a long-term, intermediate care/nursing facility, licensed by the State of
Utah, for the care of individuals who due to illness, advanced age, disability, or impairment require
assistance and/or supervision on a 24 hour per day basis. A Nursing Home includes skilled nursing
facilities, elderly care facilities, convalescent homes, and rest homes. A Nursing Home does not
include: Adult Daycare or a Homeless Shelter any other defined Use within this Chapter.
      "Occupiable Space" means an enclosed space in which individuals congregate for
amusement, education, habitation, or similar purposes, or in which the occupants are engaged in
labor.
                                                                                                              17
     "Office, Medical, Dental, Health Care" means a Building, or portion thereof containing, offices
and facilities for providing medical, dental, or psychiatric services supervised by a licensed M.D./D.O.,
D.C., D.D.S./D.M.D., N.D./N.M.D., D.P.T., D.P.M., NP, PA, O.D, ACMHC, CMHC, AMFT, or LMFT for
outpatients only. A Medical or Dental Health Care Office does not include overnight care of patients or
any other defined Use in this Chapter.
      "Office, Professional" means a Building or portion thereof that houses firms or organizations
providing professional services to individuals and businesses, where a majority of client contact occurs
at the office including advertising, accounting, architecture, law, insurance, real estate, investment,
engineering, and computer services. A Professional Office does not include technical, medical, or
dental offices or any other defined Use in this Chapter.
     "Open Space, Common" means an area of land, including Landscaping, outdoor recreation
areas, club houses, private roads, and sidewalks, within a Lot or Parcel that is commonly owned and
used by the residents and guests of the Development.
      "Open Space, Public" means an area of land or water that may be used by the public for passive
or active recreation, conservation, Landscaped Areas, preserves of the natural environment, or scenic
land.
      "Open Space, Usable" means an area of land within a Lot or Parcel, that is intended to be used
as outdoor space for the benefit of the Owners or tenants of a Development. Usable Open Space may
include Landscaped Areas, shade structures, play equipment, play courts, landscaped plazas,
Accessory Structures, and stormwater facilities that function as Usable Open Space. Usable Open
Space does not include Setbacks, Buffers, Parking, driveways, or any privately-owned spaces.
      "Overlay District" means an area designated on the Land Use Map, where certain additional
requirements or Uses are added to a base zoning district.
     "Owner" means the property owner of record.
     "Owner Occupied Residential Development" means those Developments wherein each Dwelling
     Unit is Subdivided and recorded with a unique tax Parcel identification number.
     "Parcel" means any real property that is not a Lot or Condominium.
     "Parcel Boundary Adjustment" means a recorded agreement between the Owners of adjoining
Parcels adjusting the mutual boundary, either by deed or by a boundary line agreement in accordance
with UCA § 57-1-45, if no additional Parcel is created and:
          1.   None of the property identified in the agreement is Subdivided Land; or
          2.   The adjustment is to the boundaries of a single person's Parcels; and
          3.   Does not mean an adjustment that:
               a.   Creates an additional Parcel; or
               b.   Constitutes a Subdivision.
     "Park and Ride" means an off-Street Parking Lot or Parking Structure, owned and operated by
Utah Transit Authority, the state, or South Salt Lake City, that is designed for parking automobiles, the
occupants of which transfer to public transit to continue their travel.
      "Park Strip" means the Landscaped Area within a public Right-of-Way located between the back
of the Street curb and the sidewalk, or, in the absence of a sidewalk, located between the back of the
Street curb and the Property Line.
     "Parking Area" means a public or private area, associated with a Building or Structure, that is
designed and used for parking motor vehicles. Driveways, Garages, and Parking Lots are Parking
Areas.
      "Parking Lot" means an off-Street, paved area, used for parking more than four (4) automobiles at
one time, that is available for public Use whether free, for compensation, or as an accommodation for


                                                                                                            18
clients or customers.
     "Parking, Public" means a Parking Area designated for public use.
     "Parking, Reciprocal Access" means an off-Street Parking Lot that services two or more commercial
properties that share an unobstructed Property Line so that the Parking Areas are accessible to both
properties.
    "Parking, Shared" means the Development and Use of Parking Areas for joint Use by two (2) or
more businesses or residents of adjacent properties.
    "Parking Stall" means a designated spot within a Parking Area for parking one motor vehicle, that
meets the dimensional requirements of this Title.
     "Parking Structure" means a standalone, multi-level Structure designed and used for temporarily
parking motor vehicles.
     "Pawn Broker" means a person or business that engages in the following activities:
          1.   Loans money on one or more deposits of personal property;
          2.   Deals in the purchase, exchange, or possession of personal property on condition of
               selling the same property back again to the pledger or depositor;
          3.   Loans or advances money on personal property by taking chattel mortgage security on
               the property and takes or receives the personal property into his possession, and who
               sells the unredeemed pledges;
          4.   Deals in the purchase, exchange or sale of used or secondhand merchandise or personal
               property; or
          5.   Engages in a licensed business enterprise as a Pawnshop.
    "Pawnshop" means the physical location or premises where a Pawn Broker conducts business. A
Pawnshop does not include any other defined Use in this Chapter.
      "Permanent Supportive Housing" means long term, community-based housing that also provides
supportive services for homeless persons with disabilities and enables special needs populations to
live as independently as possible in a permanent setting. Permanent Supportive Housing does not
include a Homeless Shelter any other defined Use within this Chapter.
     "Petitioner" means a person who petitions to (a) enact, amend, or repeal a Land Use Regulation; or
(b) modify the General Plan.
     "Pharmacy" means any place where a state licensed pharmacist (a) dispenses drugs, (b)
provides pharmaceutical care, or (c) processes or handles drugs for eventual use by a patient. A
Pharmacy does not include production of federally regulated substances, nor the sale of Cannabis or
Cannabis related products or any other defined Use in this Chapter.
     "Place of Worship" means a meetinghouse, church, temple, mosque, synagogue, or other
permanent Structure used primarily for regular religious worship. A Place of Worship does not include
any other defined Use in this Chapter.
      "Plat" means a map or other geographic representation of land or land and Condominium units
that a licensed land surveyor prepares in accordance with UCA § 10-9a-603.
     "Plat, Final" means a Plat approved by the Planning Commission.
     "Plat Amendment" means the combining of existing, properly subdivided Lots into one or more
Lots or the amendment of recorded Final Plat notes or other recorded Final Plat elements.
      "Porch" means a roofed area, open on three-sides, that is attached to and derives access from a
Building.
     "Portable Container" means a large, fully enclosed, durable, reusable receptacle that is typically
prefabricated for the purpose of transporting or storing freight or other goods and not for human


                                                                                                          19
occupancy. Portable Container does not include a waste receptacle, dumpster, or similar container.
     "Poultry, Urban" means the keeping of up to six (6) hens on a residential Lot or Parcel, by the
Owner of such residential Lot or Parcel, for egg harvesting or companionship, and not for on-site
slaughter.
      "Precious Metal Recycling" means a business that purchases precious metals from the general
public for recycling and refining. Precious Metal Recycling does not include Financial Institutions, a
purchaser of precious metals who purchases from a seller seeking a trade-in or allowance, jewelry
manufacturers, manufacturers of other items composed in whole or in part of gold, silver, or platinum, or
a purchaser of precious metals for his/her own use or ownership and not for resale or refining, or any
other defined Use in this Chapter.
     "Printing, Large Scale" means a business specializing in reproduction of written or graphic
materials on a custom order basis for individuals or businesses. Large Scale Printing includes
photocopy, blueprint, offset printing, publishing, binding, and engraving but does not include any other
defined Use in this Chapter.
     "Property Line" means a boundary line of a Parcel or Lot. See also Lot Line.
      "Property Line, Corner" means a boundary of a Lot or Parcel that is approximately perpendicular
to the Front Property Line and is directly adjacent to a public Right-of-Way, other than an Alley or
railroad.
     "Property Line, Front" means the boundary of a Lot or Parcel abutting a Right-of-Way, other than
an Alley or lane, from which the required Setback or Build-to Standard is measured.
      "Property Line, Rear" means the boundary of a Lot or Parcel that is approximately parallel to
the Front Property Line. The Rear Property Line that separates Lots from one another or separates
a Lot from an Alley.
      "Property Line, Side" means the boundary of a Lot or Parcel that is approximately perpendicular
to the Front and Rear Property Lines.
      "Protective Housing Facility" means a facility operated, licensed, or contracted by a
governmental entity, or operated by a charitable, nonprofit organization, limited to no more than twelve
(12) occupants at any one time, that provides temporary, protective housing exclusively to:
          1.   Abused or neglected children awaiting placement in foster care;
          2.   Pregnant or parenting teens;
          3.   Victims of sexual abuse; or
          4.   Victims of domestic abuse.
A Protective Housing Facility does not include any other defined Use in this Chapter.
     "Public Improvement" means any Structure, Street, curb, gutter, sidewalk, water or sewer line,
storm sewer, public Landscaping, flood control facility, and other similar facility for which the City may
ultimately assume responsibility, or which may affect a City improvement.
      "Public Utility Easement" means the area on a recorded Plat, map, or other recorded document
that is Dedicated to the use and installation of Public Utility Facilities or accessory equipment.
      "Public Utility Facility" means any Structure or Building used by a public utility agency to (a) store,
distribute, or generate electricity, gas, or telecommunications, and any related equipment, or (b) to
capture, pump, or to otherwise engage in all aspects of treating and distributing water or effluent. A
Public Utility Facility does not include storage or treatment of solid or hazardous waste or any other
defined Use in this Chapter.
      "Recording Studio" means a Building, or portion thereof, used by a Business primarily engaged
in producing music, publishing music, or other sound recording services. This may also include space
for music rehearsal; however, no rehearsal shall be advertised as a live performance or performed in
front of an audience not engaged in producing, publishing, or recording such music. A Recording


                                                                                                            20
Studio Use does not include any other defined Use in this Chapter.
      "Recreation Center" means an establishment that provides a variety of recreation and fitness
activities including activities within a Structure as well as incidental and subordinate outdoor
recreational activities on the same Lot. A Recreation Center does not include any other defined Use in
this Chapter.
      "Recreational Vehicle” means a vehicular unit primarily designed as a temporary dwelling for
travel, recreational and vacation use, which is either self-propelled or is mounted on or pulled by
another vehicle.
      "Recycling Collection/Drop-Off Facility" means a facility, entirely contained within a Building, that
collects recyclable materials for transport to a separate location for processing and recovery.
Recyclable materials include glass, plastic, paper, cloth, and other materials collected for recovery and
re-use. This definition does not include two (2) or fewer: a) newspaper recycling bins; or b) other similar
self-service recycling bins that are not staffed by on-site employees; or any other defined Use in this
Chapter.
     "Rehabilitation Center" means a facility licensed by the state to provide temporary occupancy and
supervision of adults or juveniles to deliver rehabilitation, treatment, or counseling services that are
overseen by a state licensed practitioner Rehabilitation Centers provide services related to delinquent
behavior, alcohol and drug abuse, conditions resulting from alcohol or drug abuse, sex offenses, sexual
abuse, or mental health. A Rehabilitation Center does not include any other defined Use within this
Chaptera Homeless Shelter or Transitional Care and Rehabilitation.
      "Residential Density" means the average number of Dwelling Units allowed per acre of land in a
particular Development.
    "Restaurant" means a business in which food is prepared and sold for consumption on the
premises. A Restaurant does not include any other defined Use in this Chapter.
     "Retail" means the sale of goods or services directly to the consumer, that generates point-of-sale
sales tax revenues for South Salt Lake City. Retail does not include "Auto Body Repair", "Automotive
Restoration" "Automotive Service and Repair", or "Automotive Service Station (Non-Mechanical)”, or
any other defined Use in this Chapter.
      "Retail, Accessory" means a business engaged in the selling or rental of goods and/or merchandise.
An Accessory Retail business hasis a maximum area of 1,000 square feet and is subordinate and
incidental to a Primary Use that is other than Retail.
      "Retail, General" means a business, that occupies a Building greater than 60,000 square feet,
that provides goods, including tobacco products and/or alcohol to other businesses in wholesale trade
or directly to the consumer. General Retail includes membership warehouse clubs. General Retail
does not include "Auto Body Repair", "Automotive Restoration" "Automotive Service and Repair", or
"Automotive Service Station (Non-Mechanical)", or any other defined Use in this Chapter.
      "Retail, Neighborhood" means a neighborhood-Scale Retail establishment, that occupies a
Building, or portion thereof, less than 60,000 square feet, engaged in the selling of goods or
merchandise, but not alcohol or tobacco products, to other businesses in wholesale trade or directly to
the consumer.
Neighborhood Retail does not include "Auto Body Repair", "Automotive Restoration" "Automotive
Service and Repair", or "Automotive Service Station (Non-Mechanical)" or any other defined Use in this
Chapter.
     "Retention Area" means a pond, pool, or basin used for the permanent storage of water runoff.
     "Right-of-Way" means a strip of land acquired by reservation, Dedication, prescription, easement,
      or
condemnation that is intended to be occupied by a Street, trail, sidewalk, Park Strip, crosswalk, railroad,
electric transmission lines, oil or gas pipeline, water line, sanitary storm sewer, or other similar uses.
     "Roof-Mounted Antenna" means an Antenna or series of individual Antennae mounted on a roof,

                                                                                                         21
mechanical room, or penthouse of a Building.
     "Scale" means the size of a Building, Structure, Street, sign, or other element compared to the
proposed and the existing built environment.
     "Screening" means a method of visually shielding or Buffering one abutting or nearby Structure or
Use from another by fencing, walls, Berms, or densely planted vegetation.
      "Secondhand Merchandise Dealer" means an Owner or operator of a business, that occupies no
less than 3,000 square feet, and that: (a) deals in the purchase, exchange, or sale of used or
secondhand merchandise or personal property; and (b) is not a Pawn Broker. Secondhand
Merchandise Dealer does not include:
            1.   The Owner or operator of an antique shop;
            2.   Any class of businesses exempt by administrative rule under Section 13-32a-112.5
                 (Utah Code Ann.) or its successor;
            3.   Any person or entity who operates an Auction House, flea market, or vehicle, vessel,
                 and outboard motor dealer as defined in Section 41-1a-102 (Utah Code Ann.) or its
                 successor;
            4.   The sale of secondhand goods at events commonly known as "garage sales", "yard
                 sales", or "estate sales";
            5.   The sale or receipt of secondhand books, magazines, or post cards;
            6.   The sale or receipt of used merchandise donated to recognized nonprofit, religious, or
                 charitable organizations or any school-sponsored association, and for which no
                 compensation is paid;
            7.   The sale or receipt of secondhand clothing and shoes;
            8.   Any person offering his own personal property for sale, purchase, consignment, or trade
                 via the Internet;
            9.   Any person or entity offering the personal property of others for sale, purchase,
                 consignment, or trade via the Internet, when that person or entity does not have, and is
                 not required to have, a local business or occupational license or other authorization for
                 this activity;
            10. Any Owner or operator of a Retail business that contracts with other persons or entities to
                offer those persons' secondhand goods for sale, purchase, consignment, or trade via the
                Internet;
            11. Any dealer as defined in Section 76-6-1402 (Utah Code Ann.) or its successor, which
                concerns scrap metal and secondary metals; or
            12. The purchase of items in bulk that are:
                 a.   Sold at wholesale in bulk packaging;
                 b.   Sold by a person licensed to conduct business in Utah; and
                 c.   Regularly sold in bulk quantities as a recognized form of sale.
      "Setback" means the minimum allowable distance between a Structure and the closest Property
Line, edge of curb, or platted public or private Right-of-Way.
    "Sexually Oriented Business" means any business defined as such in Chapter 5.01 of the Municipal
Code.
        “Short-Term Rental” means renting all or portion of a property for less than thirty (30) days at a
time.
       "Sign" means any advertising message, announcement, declaration, demonstration, display,
illustration, insignia, surface, or space erected or maintained in view of the observer thereof for

                                                                                                             22
identification, advertisement, or promotion of the interests of any person, entity, product, or service. A
Sign shall also include the structure, supports, lighting system, and any attachments, ornaments, or
other features used to draw the attention of observers. A Sign does not include a flag, badge, or
ensign of any government or governmental agency erected for and used to identify said government or
governmental agency.
     "Sign, Abandoned/Non-Maintained" means any of the following:
          1.   A Sign that no longer identifies or advertises a current, Active Business located on
               the property on which the Sign is situated;
          2.   A Sign for which no legal Owner can be found;
          3.   Signs for which required licenses have not been maintained for at least one year;
          4.   A Sign in poor condition displaying peeling paint, rust, and or other evidence of neglect; or
          5.   Signs considered abandoned or non-maintained as defined by the state of Utah.
     "Sign, Animated" means any Sign that uses movement or change of lighting to depict action or to
create a special effect or scene (compare with "Flashing Sign").
     "Sign Area" means the total area of any Sign, excluding the minimum frame and supports.
      "Sign, Attached" means any Sign that is fastened, attached, connected, or supported in whole or
in part to a Building or Building component and includes, but is not limited to, the following:
          1.   Awning Signs;
          2.   Canopy Signs;
          3.   Extended Signs;
          4.   Flat Signs;
          5.   Marquee Signs;
          6.   Roof Signs (allowed only as a special exception);
          7.   Window Signs; and
          8.   Painted Wall Signs (allowed only as a special exception).
      "Sign, Detached" means any Sign not attached to a Building or Building component and
supported permanently upon the ground by poles or braces. A Detached Sign may consist of more
than one Sign panel, provided all such Sign panels are attached to one common integrated Sign
structure. The total area of all such panels may not exceed the maximum allowable Sign Area
specified for the location for Detached Signs. Detached Signs include but are not limited to:
          1.   Pole Signs;
          2.   Ground Signs; and
          3.   Low-profile Signs.
       "Sign, Directional (Off-Premise)" means a Sign containing no more than a logo, a name, and
directions to the institution or business and is located not located on the same property as the
institution or business is located.
      "Sign, Incidental " means a small Sign, emblem, or decal informing the public of goods, facilities,
or services available on the premises. Examples of Incidental Signs include: a credit card Sign, a Sign
indicating hours of business, or residential Signs that are limited and temporary in nature such as
"Welcome Home" or "It's a Boy!"
      "Sign, Nonconforming " means a Sign or a Sign Structure or portion thereof lawfully existing at the
time this Title became effective that does not conform to all height, location, placement, construction
standards, area, and Yard regulations prescribed in this Title and in the district in which it is located.


                                                                                                            23
     "Sign, Roof" means a Sign erected partly or wholly on or over the roof of a Structure, including
Detached Signs that rest on or overlap 12 inches or more.
      "Sign, Temporary" means and includes any sign, with or without frames, intended to be displayed
out of doors for a short period of time and shall be limited to the following:
          1.   A banner, pennant, valance or advertising display constructed of paper, cloth, canvas,
               light fabric, cardboard, wall board or other light materials;
          2.   Balloons;
          3.   Festoons; and
          4.   Any Sign not permanently attached to a support or Building as required by this
     Title. "Sign, Wall (painted)" means a Sign that is painted on a wall or is painted without a
     frame or
separation from the wall or facing so that it appears to be painted on a wall.
      "Sign, Window" means a Sign that is attached to or painted on a window or door or is located
within a Building and is visible from the exterior of the Building through a window or door.
     "Significant Vegetation" means any large tree of six-inch (6") caliper or greater, grove of five (5) or
more smaller trees each of less than six-inch (6") caliper, or clump of oak or maple trees covering an
Area of 50 square feet as measured to their canopy driplines.
      "Site Plan" means a plan that outlines the Use and Development of any tract of land within South
Salt Lake City for the purposes of determining compliance with this Code.
      "Slaughterhouse/Animal Processing " means any facility where livestock or poultry are
slaughtered and prepared for distribution to butcher shops, processing facilities, or Retail sales
establishments such as grocery stores. A Slaughterhouse is entirely enclosed with a Building and may
include packing, treating, storage, on-site sale of animal by-products, or tanning of animal skins and
hides, but does not include any other defined Use in this Chapter.
     "Solar Energy System" means an energy system that converts solar energy to usable thermal,
mechanical, chemical, or electrical energy to meet a Structure's energy demands. A Solar Energy
System includes systems that are integrated into a Building or Structure, as well as those that are
mounted outside of a Building or Structure.
     "Specialty Recreational Installation" means a Structure dedicated to the support of one or more
outdoor recreational pursuits. Specialty Recreational Installation is limited to a pavilion, bicycle-
share/rental Structure, active nature-play Structure, animal or ecosystem observation Structure,
amphitheater and built trail improvement. Specialty Recreational Installation does not include any
Structure dedicated to the support of camping or overnight recreational pursuits.
     "Storage, Outdoor" means the keeping of any components, products, debris, materials,
merchandise, equipment, vehicles, or trailers in any unenclosed area outside of a Structure on a
subject parcel.
     "Storage Facility, Indoor Climate Controlled" means a Building used to provide separate, indoor
climate controlled storage areas for individuals or businesses that is designed for direct, private access
by the tenant to each unit from an enclosed corridor.
     "Storage Facility, Outdoor" means an outdoor equipment yard, depository, stockpiling or storage
of materials and products, or contractor's yard. Outdoor Storage Facilities include the storage of items
used for non-Retail or industrial trade, merchandise inventory, or bulk materials such as sand, gravel,
and other building materials. Storage Facility, Outdoor does not include the outdoor storage of motor
vehicles. Storage Facility, Outdoor does not include a business that is designed for direct, private
access by the tenant to each unit or any other defined Use in this Chapter.
    "Storage Facility, Warehouse" means a Building that is primarily used for the indoor storage of
goods and merchandise and includes a distribution facility. A Storage Warehouse does not include

                                                                                                           24
outdoor storage of any kind or any other defined Use in this Chapter.
      "Story" means the vertical measurement between floors taken from finish floor to finish floor. For
the top Story, the vertical measurement is taken from the top finish floor to the top of the wall Plate of
the roof.
     "Street" means any improved public Right-of-Way for vehicular traffic or any private Right-of-Way
Dedicated and improved to City standards that provides Access to property.
     "Street, Arterial" means a Street designated in the Master Streets Plan as a controlled-access
highway or major Street parkway.
     "Street, Cul-de-Sac" and "Cul-de-Sac" means a minor terminal (dead end) Street with a turn-
     around. "Street, Freeway" means a Street with fully controlled access designed to link major
      destination
points.
     "Street, Local" means a Street that is designated as such in the Master Streets Plan.
     "Street, Major Collector" means a Street that is designated as such in the Master Streets Plan.
     "Street, Minor Collector" means a Street, that is designated as such in the Master Streets Plan.
     "Street, Private" means a Right-of-Way that has been improved to City standards and Dedicated by
a recorded Plat as a private access, with the right of public use, to serve specific property.
     "Street, Public" means a Right-of-Way that has been Dedicated to the City by Plat, or that the City
has acquired by prescriptive right, deed, or other form of legal Dedication.
     "Streetscape" means the visual elements of a Street, including paving materials, adjacent space on
both sides of the Street, Landscaping, retaining walls, sidewalks, Building Façades, lighting, medians,
Street furniture, and signs that, in combination, form the Street's character.
    "Structure" means anything constructed or erected that is permanently affixed to the ground in any
manner. A Structure includes a Building.
       "Structure, Accessory" means a Structure that: (1) is clearly incidental and subordinate to a Primary
Building located on the same Lot or Parcel; (2) is operated and maintained under the same ownership
as Primary Building and the Primary Use; (3) houses an Accessory Use only; (4) contains no living
space;
(5) is not attached to a Primary Building; and (6) is at least 200 square feet. Accessory Structures include
garages and sheds.
     "Structure, Primary" means a Structure that houses the Primary Use associated with the Lot or
Parcel.
      "Structure, Temporary" means any physical space that is constructed without a foundation or
footings, or that contains a hitch, wheels, or trailer base, and can be removed from a location when the
designated time period, activity, or Use for which the Structure was erected ceases.
     "Subdivided Land" means the land, tract, or Lot described in a properly recorded Subdivision Plat.
      "Subdivision" means any land that is divided, re-subdivided, or proposed to be divided into one or
more Lots, Parcels, sites, units, plots, or other division of land for the purpose—whether immediate or
future—for sale, lease, or Development. A Subdivision includes the division or Development of
residential or non-residential zoned land by deed, metes and bounds description, devise and testacy,
map, Plat, or other recorded instrument.
     "Tailoring Shop" means a business that primarily engages in clothing alteration, clothing repair,
and made-to measure clothing or other garments. A Tailoring Shop does not include any other defined
Use in this Chapter.
       "Tattoo Shop/Parlor" means any location, place, area, Structure, or business used for the practice
of tattooing or the instruction of tattooing. Tattoo Shop/Parlor does not include businesses that primarily

                                                                                                             25
engages in permanent cosmetics application to restore eyebrows or enhance lips or eyelines or any
other defined Use in this Chapter.
      "Theater, Live Performance" means an establishment for the performance of dramatic, dance,
music, or other live performances with fixed seating for audiences. Live Performance Theaters do not
include Sexually Oriented Businesses or Movie Theaters or any other defined Use in this Chapter.
    "Theater, Movie" means a Building, or portion thereof, devoted to showing motion pictures for a fee.
A Movie Theater does not include any other defined Use in this Chapter.
      "Tobacco Shop" means a tobacco retailer whose business involves the sale of tobacco products
and includes the incidental and subordinate sale of related tobacco products. A tobacco shop also
includes an incidental and subordinate social/lounge room for smoking on the premises. A Tobacco
Shop does not include “Tobacco Specialty Retail” or any other defined Use in this Chapter.
     "Tobacco Specialty Retail" means a commercial establishment in which:
          1.   Sales of tobacco products, Electronic Cigarette Products, and nicotine products account
               for more than thirty-five (35) percent of the total quarterly gross receipts for the
               establishment;
          2.   Twenty (20) percent or more of the public retail floor space is allocated to the offer,
               display, or storage of tobacco products, Electronic Cigarette Products, or nicotine
               products;
          3.   Twenty (20) percent or more of the total shelf space is allocated to the offer, display,
               or storage of tobacco products, Electronic Cigarette Products, or nicotine products;
               a.   The commercial establishment:
                holds itself out as a retail tobacco specialty business; and
               b.   Causes a reasonable person to believe the commercial establishment is a retail
                    tobacco specialty business;
          4.   Any flavored Electronic Cigarette Product is sold; or
          5.   The retail space features a self-service display (as that term is defined in UCA Section 76-
               10-105.1, or any amendment thereto) for tobacco products, Electronic Cigarette Products,
               or nicotine products.
       "Trailer" means any object designed to be towed or pulled behind a vehicle, and designed to travel
along the ground by use of wheels, treads, runners, or slides. "Trailer” includes semi-trailers.
      "Transitional Housing" means a facility that provides free temporary housing to homeless
persons for at least thirty (30) days while they obtain work, job skills, or otherwise take steps to
stabilize their circumstances. A Transitional Housing facility does not include any other defined Use
within this Chapter.
          1.   A Homeless Shelter;
          2. A Dwelling Unit provided to a Family for its exclusive use as part of a transitional housing
              program for more than one hundred eighty (180) days;
          3.   A Residential Facility for Persons with a Disability;
          4.   Permanent Supportive Housing; or
          5.   Assisted Living Facilities.
      "Transitional Care and Rehabilitation" means a facility that provides mental health services or
drug rehabilitation and treatment to homeless persons. Transitional Care and Rehabilitation does not
include any other defined Use within this Chapter.
    "Turf Grass" means a variety of grasses—such as Kentucky bluegrass or perennial rye grass—
grown to form turf, or lawn, as opposed to tufted ornamental grass.

                                                                                                         26
      "Upholstery Shop" means a business that repairs and replaces upholstery for household and
office furnishings. Upholstery Shop does not include motor vehicle upholstering or repair or any other
defined Use in this Chapter.
     "Use" means the purpose or purposes for which land or Structures are approved, occupied,
maintained, arranged, designed, or intended.
      "Use, Accessory" or "Accessory" means a subordinate and incidental Use located upon the same
Lot, and in the same zoning district, as the Primary Use or Building.
     "Use, Conditional" means a Use that, because of its unique characteristics or potential impact on
the City, surrounding neighbors, or adjacent Uses, may not be Compatible in some areas or may be
Compatible only if certain conditions are required that mitigate or eliminate the detrimental impacts.
     "Use, Intensity of" means the maximum number of residential units, commercial patrons, or
industrial space within a specified land Area designated for that purpose.
     "Use, Primary" means the principal Permitted Use established on a Lot or Parcel.
     "Use, Residential" means any Use that is primarily residential in nature, but where the Primary
Use is human habitation. Residential Use includes occupancy of a Dwelling as living quarters and all
Accessory Uses but does not include Temporary Structures or unaffixed shelter such as tents,
containers, railroad cars, vehicles, trailers, or similar units. A Residential Use does not include any
other defined Use in this Chapter.
     "Use, Temporary " means a seasonal business, licensed by the City, that engages in the
temporary sale of goods, wares, or merchandise from a tent, vending cart, or other area on property
owned or leased by the person, firm, or corporation, such as: firework or Christmas tree stands.
Temporary Uses are incidental and subordinate to the Primary Use or Structure existing on the
property, and not incompatible with the intent of the district.
    "Variance" means a modification of a zoning requirement made necessary because some unique
aspect of a parcel makes the requirement burdensome or unfair.
      "Wall-Mounted Antenna" means an Antenna or series of Antennae mounted to the Façade of a
Building or a chimney.
    "Whip Antenna" means an Antenna that is cylindrical in shape. Whip Antennae can be directional or
omnidirectional and vary in size depending upon the frequency and gain for which they are designed.
     "Yard" means the portion of a Lot between a Lot Line and its nearest Setback line.
     "Yard, Corner Side" means the Yard space adjacent to a Street that extends from the Front Yard
Setback line and the Rear Property Line and between the Corner Side Setback line and the Street
Property Line.
      "Yard, Front" means the area that includes the full width of the Lot or Parcel extending from the
Main Building to any Lot Line abutting a Street, or private right of access. On a vacant Lot or Parcel,
the area that includes the full width of the Lot from the depth of the minimum Setback to any Lot Line
abutting any Street. A Corner Lot or a Double Frontage Lot has two Front Yards.
     "Yard, Rear" means the Yard extending across the full width of the Lot between the Rear Lot
Line and the Nearest line or point of the Building. The Rear Yard is that portion of the Yard opposite
the Front Yard.
     "Yard, Side" means the Yard extending from the Front Yard to the Rear Yard between the Side Lot
Line and the nearest line or point of the Building.

SECTION II: Amend Section 17.03.010 as follows:

17.03.010 - Land Use Matrix.
 A. Any Use not specifically permitted or conditionally permitted in this Land Use Matrix is prohibited.
    Only the following Uses are allowed:

                                                                                                           27
     1. Uses indicated by the letter "P" below are Permitted Uses only where designated.
     2. Uses indicated by the letter "C" are Conditional Uses only where designated.
B. All Permitted Uses are subject to the general and specific standards, as applicable, contained in
   Section 17.04, as well as the regulations of each particular zoning district where permitted.
C. All Conditional Uses are subject to the general and specific standards, as applicable, contained in
   Section 17.05, as well as the regulations of each particular zoning district.




                                                                                                         28
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Crossing MPMU - Anchor




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Granite Lofts Townhome
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Crossing MPMU- Transit




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Riverfront MPMU - RM1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Granite MPMU - Library
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Crossing MPMU - 2100




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Downtown - Mixed-Use
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Downtown - Greenway
                                                                                                                              Historic and Landmark




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      East Streetcar Nbhd. -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      East Streetcar Nbhd. -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      East Streetcar Nbhd. -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Riverfront MPMU - R1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      State Street Gateway
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Tracy Aviarys Jordan
                             Commercial Corridor




                                                   Commercial General

                                                                        TOD and TOD-Core




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         River Nature Center
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Residential Multiple




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Downtown - Station




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Townhome Overlay
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Riverfront MPMU -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Riverfront MPMU -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       500 East Gateway
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Downtown - Retail
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Granite MPMU -
                                                                                                       Business Park
                                                     Neighborhood




                                                                                                                                                      Jordan River




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          North Haven
                                                                                                                                                                                              Open Space
                                                      Commercial




                                                                                                                                                                              City Facility




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Townhome
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Flex/Office
                                                                                           Mixed Use




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SSLC-PD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S/State St
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Tenant
                                                                                                                                                                     School




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        School
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                District




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               FINCH
                                                                                                                       Flex




                                                                                                                                                                                                           R1
  Land Use Categories




       Adult Daycare           C                                C        C                  C
    Alcoholic Beverage,
                               P                   P            P         P                 P                          P                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          P                    P                      P                     P
   Banquet and Catering
 Alcoholic Beverage, Bar
                               C                                          C                                                                                                                                                            C    C                                                                                                                     C                    C                     C                      C
       Establishment
 Alcoholic Beverage, Beer
                               P                   P            P         P                 P                          P                                                                                                               P    P                                                                                                                     P                    P                      P                     P
        Recreational
 Alcoholic Beverage, Beer
                                                                                                                       C
         Wholesaler
Alcoholic Beverage, Hotel      P                   P            P         P                 P                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          P                      P                     P                 P
Alcoholic Beverage, Liquor
                                                                                                                       C
        Warehouse
Alcoholic Beverage, Local
                               P                   P            P         P                 P           P              P         P                                                                                                     P    P    P    P                                                                                                           P                    P                      P                     P
  Industry Representative
    Alcoholic Beverage,
                               C                                          C                                            C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          C                    C                     C                      C
        Manufacturer
 Alcoholic Beverage, Off-
                               P                   P            P         P                 P                          P                                                                                                               P    P                                                                                                                     P                    P                      P                     P
       Premises Beer
    Alcoholic Beverage,
                               P                                P         P                 P                          P                                                                                                               P    P                                                                                                                     P                    P                      P                     P
     Package Agency
    Alcoholic Beverage,
     Reception Center
    Alcoholic Beverage,
                               P                   P            P         P                 P                          P                                                                                                                    P                                                                                                                     P                    P                      P                     P                 P     P      P
   Restaurant (Beer Only)
    Alcoholic Beverage,
    Restaurant (Limited        P                   P            P         P                 P                          P                                                                                                                    P                                                                                                                     P                    P                      P                     P                 P     P      P
          Service)
    Alcoholic Beverage,
                               P                   P            P         P                 P                          P                                                                                                                    P                                                                                                                     P                    P                      P                     P                 P     P      P
 Restaurant (Full Service)
    Alcoholic Beverage,
                               P                                          P                                            P                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          P                    P                      P                     P                 P     P      P
Special Use (Educational)
    Alcoholic Beverage,
        Special Use                                             P                                                      P                                                                                                                              P                                                                                                           P                    P                      P                     P
(Industrial/Manufacturing)
    Alcoholic Beverage,
                               P                                P         P                                            P                                                                                                                              P                                                                                                           P                    P                      P                     P
  Special Use (Scientific)
    Alcoholic Beverage,
                               P                   P            P         P                 P           P              P         P                                                                         P       P                                                                                                                                              P                    P                      P                     P                 P     P      P
  Special Use (Religious)
    Alcoholic Beverage,
                               C                                          C                                                                                                                                                            C    C                                                                                                                     C                    C                     C                      C
           Tavern
Alcoholic Beverage, State
                               C                                          C                                            C                                                                                                                    C                                                                                                                     C                    C                     C                      C                 C     C      C
        Liquor Store

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       29
 All-Terrain Vehicle (ATV),
    Motorcycle, Personal
     Watercraft (PWC),        P       P               P                                                       P   P
  Snowmobile Sales and
            Service
     Amusement Device
Animal Hospital/Veterinary
                              P       P   P   P       P                               P       P       P   P   P   P
    Office (Small Animal)
 Animal Kennel/Day Care,
                              C       C   C   C       C
         Commercial
 Animal Kennel/Day Care,
                                                                                                      C   C   C   C   C   C   C
Commercial (Indoor Only)
  Antenna, Lattice Tower                                  C       C       C
Antenna Mounted on City-
                              P                       P       P       P   P
       Owned Structure
  Antenna, Roof-Mounted       P                       P       C       P   C   C   C
  Antenna, Wall-Mounted       P                       P       C       P   C   C   P
            Apiary                                            P               P
          Art Gallery         P   P   P   P   P       P   P           P               P       P       P   P   P   P   P   P   P
          Art Studio          P   P   P   P   P       P   P           P               P       P       P   P   P   P   P   P   P
  Assisted Living Facility    C   C       C   C                                   C                   C   C   C   C   C   C   C
    ATM, Kiosk, Vending
  Machine (Self-Service,      P   P   P   P   P   P   P               P               P               P   P   P   P   P   P   P
   Interactive, Outdoors)
        Auction House
   Auto, Light Truck, RV,
 Boat, Trailer Dealerships    C       C               C
   (Sale, Lease, or Rent)
         Auto Auction
      Auto Body Repair                                P
  Automotive Restoration              P               P
  Automotive Service and
                                      P               P
            Repair
Automotive Service Station
                                      P           P   P
      (Non-Mechanical)
            Aviary
          Bail Bonds
    Bakery, Commercial                P               P                                               P   P   P   P
   Bakery Neighborhood        P   P   P   P   P                                       P   P           P   P   P   P   P   P   P
        BioTech/Biolife                                                                               P   P   P   P
  Blood/Plasma Donation
                              P   P   P
            Center
         Bowling Alley        P       P   P   P                                                           P   P   P   P
          Car Wash            C   C   C   C   C       C                                                           C
      Child Care Center       C   C   C   C   C   C                       C               C               C   C   C   C   C   C   C
         City Building                                                P                           P
           City Park                                                  P   P
     Community Garden                                                 P   P
     Commercial Repair
                              P   P   P   P   P   P   P                                               P   P   P   P   P   P   P
           Services
  Convenience Store with
                              C   C   C   C   C       C                                                           C
         Fuel Pumps
         Cosmetology          P   P   P   P   P                                       P   P           P   P   P   P   P   P   P

                                                                                                                                      30
  Crematory/Embalming
                                                     C
           Facility
          Day Spa            C                                                           C                                   C   C   C
  Day Treatment Center               C
     Drive-Up Window         P   P   P   P   P   P   P                                   P
Dry Cleaning/Laundromat      P   P   P   P   P       P                                   P                           P   P   P   P   P   P   P
   Dwelling, Live/Work                                                                                                                           P
  Dwelling, Multi-Family     C           C   C                                   C       C   C       C               C   C   C   C   C   C   C
  Dwelling, Single-Family                                    P               P   P                       P
   Dwelling, Townhome                                                                    C   C               P   P                               P
  Dwelling Unit, Internal
                                                                             P   P
         Accessory
  Dwelling Unit, External
                                                                             P   P
         Accessory
 Education, After School
                             C   C   C   C   C               C       C   P       C   C                   C               C   C   C   C   C   C   C
         (Children)
Education, Elementary or
                                                                 C
         Secondary
Education, Higher (Public)                                       C
   Education, Preschool      C   C   C   C   C           C       C   P       C   C                                   C   C   C   C   C   C   C
   Education, Technical                                          C
        Employment
    Agency/Temporary         P       P   P   P       P                                                               P   P   P   P   P   P   P
          Staffing
    Equestrian Facility                                      C
Equipment Sales, Service,
  and Rental (Heavy and
           Farm)
       Escort Service
      Farmers Market         C   C   C   C   C           P           P   C                                           C   C   C   C   C   C   C
    Family Interim Non-
   congregate Children                                                                                                                               C
      Housing Facility
    Financial Institution    P       P   P   P   P   P                                   P                           P   P   P   P   P   P   P
      Fitness Center         P   P   P   P   P       P   P           P                   P       P                   P   P   P   P   P   P   P
 Food Truck/Food Trailer     P   P   P   P   P       P   P           P       P   P                                   P   P   P   P   P   P   P
 Food Processing (Large-
                                                     P
           Scale)
 Food Processing (Small-
                             P   P   P   P   P   P   P                                                               P   P   P   P
           Scale)
     Food Truck Park         P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P                                                           P   P   P   P   P   P   P
 Funeral/Mortuary Home               C
Grooming Services (Pets)     P   P   P   P   P       P                                                               P   P   P   P   P   P   P
      Haunted House                                                  P
    Home Occupation,
                             P   P   P   P   P                               P   P       P   P       P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P
         Category I
    Home Occupation,
                             C   C       C   C                               C   C       C   C       C   C   C   C   C   C   C   C   C   C   C
        Category II
     Homeless Shelter                                        C
Horticulture/Produce Sales       C   C               C   C   C       P                                               C   C   C   C   C   C   C
    Hospital, Specialty      C           C                                                                           C   C   C   C
            Hotel            C   C   C   C   C                                                                       C   C   C   C   C   C   C


                                                                                                                                                         31
  Hotel, Extended-Stay
  Impound and Tow Lot
             Jail
Juvenile Detention Facility
           Library                                                P                                           P
   Maintenance Facility,
      Vehicle/Transit
Major Monopole exceeding
                              C                       C       C   C   C
    mix district Height
   Major Monopole not
  exceeding max district      P                       P       P   P   P
           Height
Manufactured Home Park
   Manufacturing, Major
   Manufacturing, Minor               P               P                                       P
    Massage Therapy           C
 Medical, Dental, Health
                              P   P   P   P   P   P   P           P                   P       P                               P   P   P   P   P   P   P
        Care Office
Minor Monopole exceeding
                              C                       C       C               C   C   C   C
    max district Height
   Minor Monopole not
  exceeding max district                          P   P       P   P   P
           Height
Monopole w/ Structure >15
          ft. Wide
            Motel
Movie Studio/Sound Stage                                          P
          Museum              P   P   P   P   P           P       P   C                                                       P   P   P   P   P   P   P
       Nature Center                                                                                                  P
Non-Depository Institution
   Nursery, Commercial                P               P       P
      Nursing Home                C       C   C                               C                                               C   C   C   C   C   C   C
 Office, Medical, Dental,
                              P   P   P   P   P   P   P           P                   P       P                               P   P   P   P   P   P   P
        Health Care
    Office, Professional      P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P       P                   P   P   P                               P   P   P   P   P   P   P
       Park and Ride          C           C                                                                                   C
     Parking Structure        P   P   P   P   P       P           P           P                                               P   P   P   P   P   P   P
        Pawn Shop
  Permanent Supportive
          Housing
         Pharmacy             C   C   C   C   C       C                               C                                       C   C   C   C   C   C   C
     Place of Worship         C   C   C   C   C   C   C   C               C   C                                               C   C   C   C   C   C   C
    Portable Container        P   P   P   P   P   P   P           P       P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P       P   P   P
      Poultry, Urban                                          P           P   P                       P
Precious Metal Recycling
   Printing, Large-Scale                  P       P   P                                                                       P   P   P   P
    Protective Housing                    C
   Public Utility Facility    C   C   C   C   C   C   C       C   C   C                                                       C   C   C   C   C   C   C
     Recording Studio                 P
    Recreation Center         C   C   C   C   C   C   C   C       P   C               C                                       C   C   C   C   C   C   C
Recycling Collection/Drop-
         Off Facility


                                                                                                                                                          32
   Rehabilitation Center
         Restaurant          P   P   P   P   P                           P   P       P   P   P   P   P   P   P
     Retail, Accessory       P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P           P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P
      Retail, General        P   P   P   P   P   P   P       P       P   P       P   P   P   P   P
   Retail, Neighborhood      P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P           P           P   P   P   P   P   P   P
Secondhand Merchandise
                             P   P       P   P
           Dealer
     Sexually Oriented
                                                 C
          Business
  Slaughterhouse/Animal
         Processing
  Storage Facility, Indoor
                             C                                                       C   C   C   C
     climate controlled
 Storage Facility, Outdoor
      Storage Facility,
                                                     P       P                   P
         Warehouse
    Tattoo Shop/Parlor
      Temporary Use          C   C   C   C                           C   C
Theater, Live Performance    C           C                   P   P                   P   P   P   P
      Theater, Movie         C                                                       P   P   P   P
 Tobacco Specialty Retail
   Transitional Care and
        Rehabilitation
   Transitional Housing
Upholstery Shop/Tailoring
                             P   P   P   P   P       P                               P   P   P   P   P   P   P
            Shop




                                                                                                                 33
SECTION III: Adopt new Section 17.03. to

17.03.270 Family Interim Non-congregate Children Housing (FINCH) Zone
A.   Purpose. The Family Interim Non-congregate Children Housing (FINCH) zone
     provides minimum development and re-development standards for a Family
     Interim Non-congregate Children Housing Facility, as a Conditional Use,
     within the City.

B.   Establishment. The FINCH zone is established to:

     1.   Provide a tailored re-development, design, and Use framework
          appropriate to facilitate a new Family Interim Non-congregate Children
          Housing Facility as a conditional Use within existing structures as of June
          1, 2024, that housed a prior Motel Use within the City;

     2.   Allow for the waiver of certain subdivision, design, parking, and
          development standards, which are applicable to development within the
          City; and

     3.   Facilitate and coordinate future legislative appropriations to the City
          that are designed to alleviate regional homelessness of child-
          centered families in a manner consistent with state-level directives.

C.   Primary Use. A Family Interim Non-congregate Children Housing Facility is
     the only Primary Use within the FINCH zone and is subject to all applicable
     Conditional Use criteria found in Title 17.05.040.M. The Use is further
     limited as follows:

     1.   Limited to occupancy within Structures existing in the zone as of June
          1, 2024 (no more than 52,795 square feet);

     2.   No overnight occupancy outside of 85 approved bedrooms existing as
          of June 1, 2024; and

     3.   Intensity of all Uses on the Site is limited to:

              i.     Overnight occupancy of properly registered guests;

              ii.    The total overnight occupancy within the zone is limited to no
                     more than 400 individuals in any 24-hour period;

              iii.   No more than a total of 45 employees, volunteers, non-
                     residents, or contract laborers at any time; and

              iv. The average duration of family occupancy shall not exceed one
                  year.

D. Accessory Uses. A Family Interim Non-congregate Children Housing Facility is
   limited to the following Accessory Uses:

     1.   Within Structures located on site and existing as of June 1, 2024:

              i.     Sanitation to maintain a clean and sightly condition interior to each room and
                     throughout the zone;


                                                                                                34
             ii.   Laundry services to accommodate the permitted Use;

             iii. Office spaces, conference rooms, and one intake area to allow the approved
                  operator to function consistent with all conditions of approval and provide life
                  skills and child- centered services for approved residents;

     2.   Within the zone:
             i.    Access controlled perimeter fencing/gates;
             ii.   Secured parking lot for emergency services providers, staff, and properly
                   registered guests; and
             iii. Fenced dog/animal exercise area;

E. Standards. Structures existing within the zone as of June 1, 2024, with
   associated surface parking are legal, Non-complying Structures, and are legal,
   Non-complying parking, within the FINCH Zone. Any modification of the
   exterior of the existing Structures must comply with the following:

     1.   Minimum Area. The minimum Lot Area is 1.88 acres.

     2.   Minimum Frontage. The minimum Frontage for any Lot is 250 feet.

     3. Minimum Depth. The minimum depth of any Lot is 300 feet along
        the length of the of the property from the Front Property Line to the
        Rear Property Line.

     4. Maximum Height. The maximum Height for any new or remodeled
        Structure must comply with Chapter 17.07.090.

     5. Required Setbacks. All Structures existing on the Site as of June 1, 2024
        are valid, Non- complying Structures. Any new or expanded Structure
        must comply with the Setback provisions of Chapter 17.07.030.

     6. Subdivision Infrastructure. Any subdivision within the zone must comply
        with the provisions of Chapter 17.06, except all requirements to meet
        minimum sidewalk width, underground utilities, landscaping, parking
        demand, and parking stall configuration (except those parking stall counts,
        requirements and configurations detailed in a Conditional Use Permit
        signed by the City and the Applicant), are provisionally deferred until such
        time as the Applicant chooses to request a further zone text or map
        change, develop a new Structure, or substantially remodel a Structure
        existing on Site as of June 1, 2024 in a manner that is not approved in the
        original Conditional Use Permit.

     7. Fencing. A site perimeter fence, of adequate strength and aesthetic appeal
        is required, to provide a safe and welcoming environment for children
        housed within the facility and to substantially mitigate the potential for
        adverse effects of the facility on the neighboring community.

SECTION IV: Amend Section 17.05.040 as follows:

17.05.040 Conditional Uses with Specific Standards.
      The Conditional Uses listed below require compliance with their corresponding
specific standards in addition to any other applicable requirements of this Code,
including the General Conditional Use standards in Section 17.05.020 and

                                                                                               35
applicable Chapter 17.04 requirements.
A.   Adult Daycare. An Adult Daycare Use shall not include any overnight
     Residential Use and shall not be located within two thousand six hundred
     forty (2,640) feet of any Homeless Shelter Use. The distance shall be
     measured at the closest Property Lines.
B.   Alcoholic Beverage Uses. All Alcoholic Beverage Uses designated as "C"—
     Conditional Uses—in the Title 17 Land-Use Matrix are subject to the following,
     additional standards:
         1.    Alcoholic Beverage, Bar Establishment; Alcoholic Beverage, Beer
               Wholesaler; Alcoholic Beverage, Liquor Warehouse; Alcoholic
               Beverage, Manufacturer; Alcoholic Beverage,
               Tavern; and Alcoholic Beverage, State Liquor Store Uses also may not
               be located (a) any closer to a residential district than six hundred (600)
               feet, as measured at the closest Property Lines, (b) any closer to a
               community location than permitted under section 32B-1- 202 of the
               Utah Code, as amended, (c) nor any closer to a Homeless Shelter than
               two thousand six hundred forty (2,640) feet, as measured at the closest
               Property Lines.
         2.    All such Uses shall incorporate plenary operational and management
               practices, including the use of properly licensed, bonded, and insured
               security personnel, to prevent and mitigate adverse on-premises and
               offsite behavioral and safety impacts.
         3.    All such Uses shall maintain throughout all areas of the subject
               premises during all business hours a minimum of one candle power
               light measured at a level five feet above the floor.
C.   Animal Kennel/Day Care, Commercial. All instances of this Use shall
     comply with the criteria specified in Title 6 of this Code. Additionally, all
     outdoor play areas shall be located a minimum of one hundred fifty feet
     (150') from any residential district.
D.   Assisted Living Facility. All instances of this Use shall comply with and
     provide, as applicable, the following:
         1.    Proof of state licensure for Assisted Living Facility;
         2.    A design, residential in character and architecturally Compatible with
               the neighborhood, which adequately screens the Use from neighboring
               Lots and complies with Utah Department of Health standards;
         3.    An outdoor lighting plan which adequately screens lighting to mitigate
               its impact on surrounding Uses;
         4.    A Sign plan which includes no more than two (2) square feet of signage
               for facilities on Public Streets smaller than Collector Streets, and
               monument signs not to exceed thirty-two (32) square feet for facilities
               on Public Streets considered Collector Streets or larger; and
         5.    A delivery, traffic, and parking plan which adequately mitigates the
               adverse impacts of increased traffic generation on the neighborhood in
               which the proposed Use is located. The parking plan must propose
               parking appropriate for the proposed Use of the facility.
         6.    An Applicant for this Use acknowledges: its responsibility for each
               unlawful request for emergency services at the facility, under Chapter
               8.34 of this Code; that it is the recipient of all emergency services under
               Section 2.40.060 of this Code; and shall reimburse the City for the costs

                                                                                             36
              of all emergency services rendered at or to residents of the facility
              under Section
              2.40.270 of this Code.
E.   Auto, Light Truck, RV, Boat, Trailer Dealerships (Sale, Lease, or Rent). In
     addition to being subject to the Design Review process, all instances of this
     Use (including change of a prior instance of this Use) shall comply with the
     following criteria:
         1.   Landscaping shall be required along any Street Frontage and shall be
              subject to the Development Standards of Chapter 17.06 of this Code.
         2.   Buildings must meet the minimum Setback requirements of their respective
              districts.
         3.   Designated customer parking must be provided at a ratio of one (1) space for
              every twenty
              (20) vehicles displayed, with a maximum of fifteen (15) spaces required.
              A minimum of three employee Parking Stalls must be provided. Off-
              Street customer and employee Parking Stalls must be identified.
         4.   All Buildings other than sales offices only must provide additional
              designated Parking Stalls at a ratio of one (1) space per five hundred
              (500) square feet of floor space.
         5.   All businesses adjacent to residential districts shall require design
              review approval from the Planning Commission.
         6.   Where any business is adjacent to a Residential Use, a Buffer between
              the Residential Use and the business shall be required. Walls,
              Landscaping, special Setbacks, other elements, or a combination of
              these items must be used, as appropriate, to mitigate the impact upon
              the adjacent Residential Use. The City shall consider the visual
              appearance of the site, the traffic flows, noise, light and the size and
              purpose of adjacent Streets or Alleys, the extent of the business
              operations, and other factors in determining the Buffer sufficiency.
         7.   Outside loudspeakers, lighting which intrudes into adjacent properties, deliveries
              before 7:00
              a.m. or after 10:00 p.m., the use of Public Streets for loading and
              unloading, repair work outside of a Building, and any other public
              nuisance conduct shall be prohibited.
         8.   For the purposes of maintaining safe access and to promote
              uncluttered and attractive displays, all outdoor Auto, Light Truck, RV,
              Boat, and Trailer displays must be done in a manner consistent with
              Parking Lot requirements and such that all individual units can be
              relocated without the necessity of first relocating others.
         9.   All Auto, Light Trucks, RVs, Boats, and Trailers displayed shall meet all
              requirements of law at all times, shall be in operating condition, shall
              not have flat tires or broken windows, and shall be capable of being
              licensed and registered without additional repair or alteration.
         10. The minimum outdoor display lot area, not including any Buildings, for
             any Auto, Light Truck, RV, Boat, Trailer Dealerships (Sale, Lease, or
             Rent) Use shall be one (1) acre. The one (1) acre of required display
             lot area shall be located in the front and side yard areas. Lot area
             behind a Building shall not be counted as required display lot area. All
             vehicle display areas shall be Hard-Surfaced as established in the
             City's parking, access, and circulation requirements. When a

                                                                                              37
              Development is larger than one (1) acre and contains more than (1)
              business, an Auto, Light Truck, RV, Boat, Trailer Dealerships (Sale,
              Lease, or Rent) Use may be located within that Development if all
              requirements of this Title are met, including:
              a.   Parking requirements;
              b.   Site and Landscaping requirements;
              c.   Ingress and egress points are provided for the other businesses; and
              d.   The devoted outdoor display lot area is a minimum of one (1) acre in area.
         11. The minimum Lot Frontage shall be two hundred (200) feet in width. The
             Frontage of Corner Lots shall be determined by the Street on which the
             property is addressed.
         12. Auto, Light Truck, RV, Boat, Trailer Dealerships (Sale, Lease, or Rent)
             Uses are exempt from the minimum outdoor display lot area and Lot
             Frontage requirements of this Section if all inventory is stored and
             displayed indoors. Indoor-only Auto, Light Truck, RV, Boat, Trailer
             Dealerships (Sale, Lease, or Rent) Uses are subject to all other
             applicable requirements of this Section, and the following additional
             standards:
              a.   Sales of vehicles must be conducted entirely within a fully-
                   enclosed Building consisting of a showroom with an area no
                   smaller than three thousand (3,000) square feet.
              b.   Showroom spaces shall be visible from the exterior of the Building,
                   through the use of windows, storefronts, or other Architectural
                   Elements using either a Single-Story Commercial or Flex Building
                   form.
              c.   Outdoor sales, display, and storage of Autos, Light Trucks, RVs,
                   Boats, and Trailers is prohibited.
              d.   Parking associated with indoor-only Auto, Light Truck, RV, Boat,
                   Trailer Dealerships (Sale, Lease, or Rent) Uses shall only be used
                   for customers and employees.
F.   Child Care Center. All instances of this Use shall comply with and
     provide, as applicable, the following:
         1.   Proof of state licensure;
         2.   A design which precludes a front yard playground; and
         3.   A delivery, traffic, and parking plan which adequately mitigates the
              adverse impacts of increased traffic generation in the neighborhood
              where the Use proposed to be located.
G.   Convenience Stores with Fuel Pumps.
         1.   The pump islands of the convenience store may be erected in the Front
              Yard area provided the pumps are set back at least twenty-four (24)
              feet from the Right-of-Way of any Street.
         2.   Hard-Surfaced driveways leading to and from a pump island and other
              properly located service facilities permitted on the property shall be
              allowed in the Front Yard area provided that the driveways shall be
              defined by the construction of a concrete curb on the side adjoining the
              sidewalk. The area between the curb and the sidewalk shall be
              landscaped to comply with Chapter 17.06.

                                                                                           38
         3.   A ten-foot distance shall be maintained between a driveway and the
              Property Line with which it is parallel or approximately parallel.
         4.   All Parking Areas on the convenience store Lot shall maintain the
              required landscaped Front Yard as required in Chapter 17.06 and shall
              be bordered by concrete curbing.
H.   Day Treatment Center. All Day Treatment Center Uses shall be outpatient
     only with no inpatient residential component. Day Treatment Center Uses
     shall not be located any closer to residential districts, Parks, or Schools
     than six hundred (600) feet, nor within two thousand six hundred forty
     (2,640) feet of any Homeless Shelter Use, as measured at the closest
     Property Lines.
I.   Family Interim Non-Congregate Children Housing (“FINCH”) Facility. A
     FINCH facility Use shall:
         1.   Conduct all operations within an enclosed Structure;
         2.   Serve only properly registered families who qualify for residency in a
              FINCH facility;
         3.   Provide adequately staffed, 24-hour, on-site management;
         4.   Provide adequately staffed, licensed, and bonded private security (or
              properly trained off- duty police officers) to minimize the demand on
              public emergency services providers;
         5.   Participate in and support the City’s comprehensive management plan
              to prevent the deterioration of public health and public safety in the
              vicinity as a result of the Use, the potential for loss of community in the
              neighborhood, the deterioration of public assets or the devaluation of
              private property by demonstrating:
              a.     Effective measures to:
                     i. Minimize neighborhood disruption associated with the Use and
                         the potential for excessive demands for City services;
                     ii. Minimize the spread of disease both on and off-Site;
                     iii. Protect and nurture children housed on-Site;
                     iv. Ensure the safety and convenience of emergency responders
                          and public safety personnel; and
                     v. Deter and promptly remediate graffiti.
              b.     Engage in good faith efforts, to support the City’s request to obtain adequate
                     resources and commitments from the State of Utah, and other benefactors,
                     to promptly reimburse the City for:
                     i.      The disproportionate cost or consumption of City services resulting
                             from the Use;
                     ii.     Each unlawful request for emergency services associated
                             with the Use of the facility, under Section 8.34.020; and
                     iii. The costs of all emergency and public safety services
                          rendered at the facility as the designated "recipient" under
                          Section 2.40.070;
                c.         Implementation of specific, objective, and accountable
                           security and operations measures and policies to:
                             i.   Safely store all guest weapons in a secure location, to:
                                                                                                39
                              A. securely store all prescribed medication;
                              B. prohibit on-site illegal drug possession or use; and
                              C. prohibit the possession or storage of any stolen property;
                       ii.    Reduce the proliferation of crime off-Site that is associated with
                              the Use;
                       iii.   Reduce the Use from supporting, attracting,
                              compounding the adverse impacts of an off-Site
                              homeless population near the facility;
                       iv.    Minimize the production, accumulation, disposal, and
                              transportation of solid waste;
                       v.     Enforce appropriate quiet hours to protect resident
                              children’s health and the quiet enjoyment of neighboring
                              properties;
                       vi.    Screen guests for, and promptly refer and transfer
                              applicable guests to, off- Site rehabilitation and
                              detoxification or mental health programs, if available;
                       vii. Regularly address ongoing operational complaints from
                            residents within the facility, from public safety personnel,
                            and from neighboring residents and businesses that
                            arise from the Use;
                       viii. Maintain a comprehensive guest registry system that is
                             maintained for a minimum of two years and is readily
                             available to public safety personnel to the extent allowed
                             by applicable law;
                       ix.    Transition guests from the facility to more permanent
                              housing opportunities as soon as reasonably possible;
                       x.     Identify and facilitate registration of convicted sex
                              offenders, and prohibit those who have a sex offense
                              against a minor in the past 10 yeast from remaining at
                              the Facility;
                       xi.    Enforce a reasonable code of guest conduct, in
                              collaboration with the South Salt Lake City Police
                              Department, including the prohibition of pan handling
                              within the City;
                       xii. Minimize vehicular and pedestrian traffic generation to
                            and from the facility;
                       xiii. Prevent/eliminate off-premises parking within the City
                             associated with the Use; and
                       xiv. Assure the safety of children within the facility, and
                            promote the intellectual and emotional health and
                            development, of children housed in the facility.

J.   Funeral/Mortuary Home. This Use cannot share space or any Common Wall with another
     Use.
K.   Homeless Shelter. Any Homeless Shelter Use shall:
         1.   Comply with the urban-style Multi-Family design standards;


                                                                                              40
2.   Conduct all operations within an enclosed structure;
3.   Serve only registered, overnight guests;
4.   Provide 24-hour, on-site management and security;
     5.     Provide, implement and maintain a comprehensive design and
     management plan to prevent the deterioration of public health and
     public safety, the potential for loss of community, the deterioration of
     public assets and the devaluation of private property that Utah has
     recently experienced as a result of the opioid crisis, incomplete criminal
     justice reform, the lack of long term affordable housing, a lack of
     qualified and affordable long term treatment facilities and a poorly
     managed concentration of homeless individuals housed in
     overcrowded and understaffed facilities by demonstrating:
     a.   Effective measures to:
          i.     Minimize neighborhood disruption associated with the Use
                 and the potential for excessive demands for City services;
          ii.    Adequately and professionally staff the facility;
          iii.   Prevent the spread of disease both on and off-site; and
          iv.    Ensure the safety and convenience of public safety personnel;
     b.   Adequate resources and commitment to promptly reimburse the City for:
          i.     The disproportionate cost or consumption of City services resulting
                 from the use;
          ii.    Each unlawful request for emergency services associated
                 with the Use of the facility, under Section 8.34.020;
          iii.   The costs of all emergency services rendered at the
                 facility as the designated "recipient" under Section
                 2.40.070;
          iv.    Implementation of specific objective, and accountable
                 security and operations measures to prevent and eliminate:
                 a)   Criminal activity on-site, including policies to safely store
                      all guest weapons in a secure location, to securely store
                      and dispense all prescribed medication, to prohibit on-
                      site illegal drug possession or use and possession or
                      storage of any stolen property;
                 b)   Proliferation of crime off-site that is associated with the use;
                 c)   Potential for the facility to support/attract/compound the
                      adverse impacts of an off-site homeless population
                      within a one-mile radius of the facility;
                 d)   Best management practices to minimize the
                      production, accumulation, disposal and transportation
                      of solid waste;
                 e)   Enforcement of quiet hours to protect neighboring properties;
                 f)   A transparent and effective guest screening system to
                      promptly refer and transfer applicable guests to off-site
                      rehabilitation and detoxification or mental health
                      programs;
                 g)   Specific processes and objective commitments to

                                                                                         41
                               regularly address ongoing operational complaints;
                          h)   Comprehensive guest registry system that is maintained
                               for a minimum of two years and is readily available to
                               public safety personnel;
                          i)   Detailed plan to transition guests from shelter within 90 days of
                               initial registry;
                          j)   Coordination with public safety regarding notice of any
                               registered sex offender within the facility;
                          k)   A reasonable code of guest conduct, including the
                               prohibition of pan handling within the City;
                          l)   Best practices to minimize vehicular and pedestrian
                               traffic generation to and from facility.
L.   Home Occupation, Category II.
         1.   Regulations.
              a.   Category II Home Occupations must be clearly incidental and
                   subordinate to the Primary Use of the Dwelling for residential
                   purposes and shall not change the character of the Dwelling or the
                   neighborhood in which it is located. If at any time it is determined
                   that a Home Occupation has altered the character of a Dwelling or
                   neighborhood, the Home Occupation license will be revoked, and
                   the character of the Dwelling must be restored.
                   i.     A Home Occupation that changes the outside appearance of
                          the Dwelling, architecturally or otherwise, to accommodate
                          the Home Occupation Use on the property is prohibited.
                   ii.    A Home Occupation may include the sale of goods produced
                          on the premises and goods produced elsewhere as long as
                          goods are not displayed where they may be seen from the
                          outside of the property and as long as the sale of goods are
                          limited to no more than two (2) customers per hour.
                   iii.   A Home Occupation shall not occupy more than twenty (20)
                          percent of the Dwelling's Floor Area.
                   iv.    Except for an enclosed outdoor play area for Child Care, a
                          Home Occupation shall not involve the use of any yard area
                          or activity outside a Building.
                   v.     An Accessory Structure separate from the Dwelling may be
                          used for a Home Occupation as long as: (i) the Accessory
                          Structure remains incidental and subordinate to the Dwelling;
                          (ii) no more than twenty-five (25) percent of the Floor Area of
                          the Accessory Structure is used for the Home Occupation; and
                          (iii) the land use authority approves the Use of the Accessory
                          Structure for the Home Occupation. Home garden produce
                          sales shall follow the requirements in Subsection (1)(b).
                   vi.    No employee, other than one living at the Dwelling, is allowed
                          at the Dwelling for any business purpose.
                   vii. All signs shall meet the requirements of Chapter 17.08 of this Code.
                   viii. Explosive or combustible materials shall not be stored for a Home
                         Occupation.

                                                                                                   42
     ix.    Home Occupations shall not disturb the peace and quiet of
            the neighborhood with noise, vehicles, odor, dust, vibrations,
            parking, obstructions, or other matters related to the
            business.
     x.     Yard and garage sales associated with a Home Occupation are
            prohibited.
     xi.    Home Occupations shall only be conducted between the
            hours of seven (7) a.m. and eight (8) p.m.
     xii. Home Occupations shall comply with all pertinent City,
          county, and state regulations, including business license
          regulations. Home Occupation licenses may be revoked upon
          any valid unresolved complaint. Inspections by the City may
          occur as necessary to assure conformance with conditions
          and regulations.
     xiii. Home Occupation shall meet all licensing requirements of the
           City, county, and state.
b.   Category II Home Occupations shall meet the standards of
     this Subsection and Subsection (1)(d):
     i.     Home office Uses that require a customer to come to the
            home in order to conduct business.
     ii.    Home garden produce sales. Home garden produce sales
            must have sufficient Frontage or driveway space for the
            parking of vehicles. In order to avoid damage to adjacent
            Uses or property, all Temporary Structures shall be properly
            secured or anchored to the ground to prevent the Structure
            from being moved. The City may require additional securing
            or anchoring upon finding that the method of securing is
            inadequate.
     iii.   Barber Shop or Hair Salon.
     iv.    Home Craft Production and sales, where no machinery is
            used to create or construct the item produced.
     v.     Music, tutoring, and general education instruction limited to
            no more than two (2) students at a time.
     vi.    Dressmaker, seamstress, or tailor who has no assistants.
     vii. Similar Uses as deemed appropriate by the land use authority.
c.   The following Category II Home Occupation shall meet the
     standards and conditions listed below and in section 17.05.020(C)
     are met:
     i.     Home Craft Production and sales, where machinery is used
            to create or construct the item produced and does not involve
            reportable or regulated quantities of hazardous or flammable
            substances, and such operations will not generate noise, dust
            or odors.
     ii.    Dance instruction, limited to no more than two (2) students at
            a time or no more than twenty percent (20%) of the Dwelling's
            Floor Area, whichever is greater.
     iii.   Family Child Care, provided the care is provided only by
            those residing within the home, is limited to no more than

                                                                             43
                         eight (8) children at a time, a food prepared shall comply with
                         all Salt Lake County Health Department standards, a Utah
                         Food Handlers permit is required if serving non-prepackaged
                         food, the food approved by Utah Childcare Licensing, and
                         complies with the requirements of all regulating agencies.
                  iv.    Pet Grooming Services, limited to two (2) animals on-site at any one
                         time; or
                  v.     Wholesale or Retail sales of goods, except as incidental to a
                         permitted Home Occupation.
             d.   Conditions for Uses listed in Subsections (b) and (c):
                  i.     Exception for home garden produce sales, customer traffic is
                         by appointment only with no walk-ins.
                  ii.    All Category II Home Occupation shall be limited to two (2)
                         individual customers on the premises at a time.
                  iii.   Hours of operation shall be limited from seven a.m. (7 a.m.) to eight
                         p.m. (8 p.m.).
                  iv.    No person, other than the Applicant/resident, shall work at the Home
                         Occupation.
                  v.     No more than two (2) customer vehicles may be parked on-site at any
                         time.
                  vi.    Category II Home Occupations may use available on-Street
                         parking abutting the Dwelling.
                  vii. Required off-Street parking for the Residential Use shall not
                       be interrupted for the Home Occupation.
                  viii. If a commercial vehicle is used in conjunction with a Home
                        Occupation, it must (1) be parked off-Street on an approved
                        Impervious Surface; (2) not exceed one ton in capacity; and
                        (3) not be operated from the property between the hours of
                        eight
                        p.m. (8 p.m.) until seven a.m. (7 a.m.). Should a commercial
                        vehicle create a nuisance regarding parking, noise, odor,
                        hazardous substances, etc., the vehicle may be barred from
                        the residential district by action of the Planning Commission.
             e.   Category II Home Occupations do not include:
                  i.     Equestrian Facility;
                  ii.    Commercial Animal Kennel or Commercial Animal Day Care;
                  iii.   Real estate office other than an individual agent or broker in his own
                         home;
                  iv.    (Minor or Major) Manufacturing;
                  v.     Indoor Storage Facility, Outdoor Storage Facility, or Warehouse
                         Storage Facility;
                  vi.    Auto-related uses;
                  vii. Massage Therapy; or
                  viii. Any Use not specifically listed as permitted in this Section.
M.   Movie Theater/Live Performance Theater. Such Uses shall not be located

                                                                                                 44
     any closer to residential districts than three hundred (300) feet, as measured
     at the closest Property Lines.

N.   Sexually Oriented Business. All shall comply with the criteria specified in Title 5 of this
     Code.
O.   Storage Facility, Indoor Climate Controlled. All instances of this Use shall
     comply with and provide, as applicable, the following:
         1.   Comply with all Commercial Design Standards found in 17.07;
         2.   Comply with all Development Standards found in 17.06;
         3.   Conduct all business operations within an enclosed structure;
         4.   Provide on-site management and security;
         5.   Provide, implement and maintain a security plan to prevent the
              deterioration of public health and public safety;
         6.   Provide, implement and maintain an outdoor lighting plan that
              adequately screens lighting to mitigate its impact on surrounding
              Uses;
         7.   Provide, implement and maintain best management practices to
              minimize the production, accumulation, disposal, and transportation of
              solid waste;
         8.   Provide, implement and maintain a loading and services plan, including fire
              access; and
         9.   Provide, implement and maintain an energy efficiency plan.
P.   Temporary Use.
         1.   Use Limitations.
              a.    Temporary Uses include firework stands, Christmas tree lots, and
                    other similar seasonal Uses.
              b.    Temporary Use Permit. Temporary Uses shall obtain a separate
                    business license and Conditional Use permit for each Use and
                    location.
              c.    Time Limitations. Use permits may be allowed for up to a six (6)
                    month period with the following exceptions:
                    i.    Firework Stands. Restrictions shall follow the public sales
                          and display limitations found in state code.
                    ii.   Christmas Tree Lots. Shall only be permitted from November
                          1 through December 31.
              d.    Hours of Operation. Temporary Uses may be open from eight (8)
                    a.m. to ten (10) p.m. unless provided otherwise under state code.
              e.    Signage. Permanent signs are prohibited for Temporary Uses. All
                    Signs shall follow the requirements of Chapter 17.08.
              f.    Regulations by Other Agencies. This Section does not exempt the
                    Applicant or operator from acquiring any other required permit for
                    operation.
              g.    Liability Insurance. The Applicant must obtain adequate liability
                    insurance to cover all activities related to the Use for the duration
                    of the permit, prior to issuance of the Temporary Use permit. A

                                                                                                   45
          copy of the liability insurance policy shall be submitted to the City
          with the business license Application.
2.   Site Improvements.
     a.   Temporary Uses shall meet the following requirements:
          i.   If the Temporary Use is located on an unimproved Parcel, the following
               shall apply:
               a)   Based on the scope of the operation, the land-use
                    authority may require the installation of a minimum road
                    base or gravel surface for parking, to assure the safe
                    passage of vehicles on adjacent roadways, and the
                    safety of patrons.
               b)   Sufficient off-Street parking shall be provided to meet
                    the needs of the operation and of any existing Uses on
                    the property.
               c)   Structures, displays, and other activities must be located
                    sufficient distance from any Street to provide for public
                    safety and Clear View Area requirements as found in
                    Chapter 17.07.
               d)   If any part of the Temporary Use becomes a nuisance
                    or safety hazard, the land-use authority may require
                    changes or discontinuance of the operation.
               e)   All activities and displays shall take place in accordance
                    with the standards for outside business activities found
                    elsewhere in this Title.
          i.   If the Temporary Use is located on an improved Lot or
               Parcel, the following shall apply:
               a)   Sufficient off-Street parking shall be provided to meet
                    the needs of the operation and any existing Uses on the
                    property as determined by the land use authority.
               b)   Structures, displays, and other activities must be located
                    sufficient distance from Streets to provide for public
                    safety and Clear View requirements as found in Chapter
                    17.07.
               c)   If any part of the operation becomes a nuisance or
                    safety hazard, the land use authority may require
                    changes to or discontinuance of the operation.
               d)   In addition to the foregoing, all activities and displays
                    shall take place in accordance with the standards for
                    outside business activities found elsewhere in this Title.
               e)   Permanently located businesses that operate a
                    Temporary Use shall meet the design standard and site
                    improvement requirements found in Chapter
                    17.06 and 17.07.
3.   Site Restoration. The site must be restored to its original condition upon
     expiration of the Temporary Use permit. The site may not be used for
     storage of any Temporary Use or Structures.
4.   Temporary Structures. All Temporary Structures must be approved by
     the land-use authority. In order to avoid damage to adjacent Uses or

                                                                                  46
              property, all Temporary Structures shall be properly secured or
              anchored to the ground to prevent the Structure from being moved. The
              City may require additional securing or anchoring upon finding that the
              method of securing is inadequate.
Q.   Wireless Communication Facilities.
         1.   In addition to the existing Conditional Use standards, the following
              factors shall be considered by the Planning Commission:
              a.   Compatibility of the proposed Structure with the height and mass
                   of existing adjacent Buildings and utility Structures;
              b.   Whether Collocation of the Antenna on other existing structures in
                   the same vicinity with such Uses as other towers, Buildings, utility
                   poles and similar Structures is possible, and practical, as
                   demonstrated by the Applicant, without significantly affecting the
                   Antenna transmission or reception;
              c.   The location of the Antenna in relation to existing vegetation,
                   topography, and Buildings to optimize visual Screening;
              d.   Whether the spacing between Monopoles creates detrimental
                   impact on adjacent properties;
              e.   The willingness of the Applicant to allow Collocation on its
                   facility in the future for a reasonable compensation, as provided
                   in sub (1)(b) of this Subsection.
         2.   The Planning Commission may require that the Structure be designed
              and engineered to reasonably allow Collocation by a subsequent
              provider of low power radio communication services, if Collocation is
              feasible and consistent with sound engineering principles. Nothing
              herein shall be construed to deny the Owner of such a Structure from
              the right to receive reasonable compensation from that subsequent
              collocating provider for the Use of the structure.
         3.   Accessory Buildings for Antenna Structures. Accessory Buildings to
              Antenna Structures must comply with the required Setback, height and
              Landscaping requirements of the zoning district in which they are
              located. Monopoles shall be fenced with a six-foot chain-link fence and
              the climbing pegs removed from the lower 20 feet of the Monopole.
         4.   Abandoned Facilities. The Community Development Department is
              empowered to require an abandoned low power radio services Antenna
              be removed from the Building or premises when that Antenna has not
              been put into use by the Owner, the person having control, or the
              person receiving the benefit of the Structure within 30 calendar days
              after notice is given to the Owner, the person registered with the City as
              having control, or the person last known to the City to receive the
              primary benefit of the Structure. Notices required by this Section may
              be given by personal service, or by certified mail addressed to the
              person's last known address.
         5.   Where Allowed. A low power radio service facility, which is not
              otherwise classified in this Section, is a Conditional Use as outlined
              herein. A Conditional Use permit for a Monopole may be granted in a
              residential district only if the Planning Commission finds that:
              a.   The Monopole Antenna otherwise meets the requirements of
                   Subsection (D) and does not exceed 60 feet in height;


                                                                                           47
               b.   The Antenna tower will be placed on a Parcel occupied by a non-
                    Residential Use, such as a school, church, or other non-
                    Residential Use that is a legally conforming structure in that
                    residential district;
               c.   The Antenna tower will be located no closer than 150 feet from the
                    nearest residential structure; and
               d.   The Antenna and supporting Structure will be disguised as, or
                    otherwise integrated with, a light pole, Billboard, utility Structure or
                    similarly Compatible and useful Structure located on the Parcel in
                    a way that minimizes and mitigates the visual impact of the
                    Antenna.
          6.   Controlling Chapter. Notwithstanding the various descriptions of land
               uses listed in the ordinances of the City relative to communication
               facilities, and the manner in which those various Uses are listed as
               Permitted or Conditional Uses in the respective chapters of this Title,
               the provisions of this Section and the Land Use Matrix shall prevail in
               governing the placement of wireless communication facilities, low
               power radio services facilities, and appurtenant facilities in the City,
               including the designation of Permitted and Conditional Uses in the
               various land-use districts.



SECTION V: Revise Section 17.07.020 as follows:
17.07.020 Building Form by Land Use District.
    A. Building Forms. Only Building forms designated by the letter A in
       the following matrix are allowed in each district. All other Building
       forms are prohibited.
                                                                              Single-Story Commercial




                                                                                                                                                                    to Non-Res. Building
                                                                                                                                                                    Accessory Structure
                                                                                                                                               Controlled Storage
                                                         Urban-Style Multi-




                                                                                                                                               Indoor Climate
                              Single-Family




                                                                                                                         Large Format
                                                                                                                         Commercial
                                              Townhome



                                                         Family




                                                                                                                Office
                                                                                                        Civic




                                                                                                                                        Flex




    Commercial Corridor                                  A                    A                         A       A        A                     A                    A
    Commercial                                                                A                         A                                                           A
    Neighborhood
    Commercial General                                                        A                         A       A                                                   A
    TOD & TOD-Core                                       A                    A                         A       A        A              A                           A
    Mixed-Use                                            A                    A                         A       A        A                                          A
    Townhome Overlay                          A
    Business Park                                                             A                                 A                       A                           A
    Flex                                                                      A                         A       A        A              A                           A
    Historic                                                                                            A                                                           A
    Jordan River              A
    City Facility                                                                                       A                                                           A
    Open Space
    R1                        A                                                                         A                                                           A

                                                                                                                                                        48
         Residential Multiple     A             A                           A                                                                 A
         Riverfront Flex/Office                                                                                         A                     A
         Riverfront R1            A
         Riverfront RM1
         Riverfront School                                                  A                                                                 A
         Crossing MPMU -                                                                                A                                     A
         Anchor Tenant
         Crossing MPMU -                        A                                                                                             A
         2100 S/ State St.
         Crossing MPMU -                                    A                               A           A                                     A
         Transit District
         Downtown*                              A           A               A               A           A                           A         A
         East Streetcar**                       A           A               A                                                                 A
         Granite Library                                                    A                                                                 A
         Granite Townhome               A
         Granite Lofts                  A
         FINCH                                  A

 *Excludes Station District
** See East Streetcar MPMU

        B. Building Form Does Not Determine Land Use. Regardless of Building
           form, all Uses carried on within a Building shall be limited to the Permitted
           Uses in the land use district in which the Building is located.

    SECTION VI: Revise Section 17.07.030 as follows:

    17.07.030 Development Standards. In addition to the Subdivision and platting
    requirements contained elsewhere in this Title, the following Development standards
    apply to all Structures:
        A. Yard Areas. All Development shall comply with the Setbacks, both for
           each Building and for the Project perimeter, designated for each district.
           All Yard areas shall be free of any Structure and shall not be used for
           parking, unless otherwise provided herein.
                1. Setbacks.
                                                            Side Frontage




                                                                                                                                        Separation
                                                                                Side Yard

                                                                                                Side Yard

                                                                                                            Rear yard



                                                                                                                        Perimeter
                                                                                                Combine




                                                                                                                                        Building
                                                                                                                        Project
                                                            Corner
                                                    Front
                                                    Yard




        Commercial Corridor                         10’         10’              0              0            0
        Commercial Neighborhood                     10’         10’              5’             12’          0
        Commercial General                          10’         10’              0              0            0
        TOD & TOD-Core                               5’          5’              0              0            0
        Mixed-Use                                    5’          5’              5’             12’         20’
        Business Park                               15’         10’              0              0            0
        Flex                                        10’         10’              0              0            0
        Historic and Landmark                       15’         15’             15’             30’         15’
        Jordan River                                30’         10’             20’             40’         20’
        School                                      25’         25’             25’             50’         25’
        City Facility                               15’         10’              0              0            0
        R1                                          20’         12’              5’             12’         20’


                                                                                                                                        49
                                         10’      10’                           10’ to         20’
                                                                               SF; 8’ to    between
                                                                               non- SF      abutting
Townhome Overlay                                                                            facades,
                                                                                             45’ on
                                                                                              street
                                                                                             radius
Residential Multiple                     20’      10’     5’     12’ 20’
Riverfront MPMU - Flex/Office            20’       5’     5’     10’ 25’

Riverfront MPMU - R1                     20’      10’      5’    10’ 20’
Riverfront MPMU - RM1                    10’      10’     10’    20’ 20’
Riverfront MPMU – School                 20’      20’     20’    40’ 20’
Crossing MPMU - Anchor Tenant              *        *        *    *    *

Crossing MPMU - 2100 S./State St.          *        *       *     *        *

Crossing MPMU – Transit                     *      *         *     *     *
Downtown                                   5’      5’       0’    0’    0’
East Streetcar                              *      *         *     *     *
Granite Lofts Townhome Units 1-5,8-       8’     236ft2    0     0     12’
11,14-15,20-23
Granite Lofts Townhome Units              8’     236ft2   8’     20’   0
6,7,12,13,18,19,24,25
Granite MPMU – Library                     *        *       *     *     *
Granite MPMU – Townhome                    *        *       *     *     *
FINCH                                     10’      10’     10’   25’   30’        NA            25’

                * See Approved MPMU or Overlay District
               ** Double Frontage Lots shall two (2) Front Yards and no Rear Yard.

        2. Yard Requirements and Qualifications.
              a. Outdoor Storage is prohibited in all Yard areas, off-
                 Street Parking Areas, maneuvering and loading
                 areas, and site Landscaping.
              b. All Front and Corner Side Yard areas shall be
                 landscaped according to the landscape standards
                 established in this Title.
              c. Yard areas shall not be used for parking, except for
                 driveways or garages as required by this Title.
              d. Fences, Courtyards, and patios are permitted in certain
                 Yard areas in specific districts, provided they meet
                 requirements established elsewhere in this Title.

B. Build-to Standards. All Structures shall conform to the following
   Build-to Standards, as applicable:




                                                                                           50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   6 7 12 13 18 19 24 25
                                                                                                                 Flex (Building footprint




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        The Crossing Anchor
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Riverfront Flex/Office




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              The Crossing Transit
            Commercial Corridor


                                               Commercial General




                                                                                                                                                                                Townhome Overlay
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Residential Multiple




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              The Crossing 2100




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Granite Lofts Units
Build- to




                                                                    TOD & TOD-Core




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Riverfront School
Standar




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Riverfront RM1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Granite Library
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S /State Street
                                                                                                 Business Park




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 East Streetcar
d




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Riverfront R1
                                                                                                                                            Jordan River
                                  Commercial




                                                                                                                                                           City Facility
                                                                                     Mixed-Use




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Downtown




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SSLC-PD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      FINCH
                                                                                                                                                                           R1
Min – In    1                     1            1                    5                5           1               1                          2              1               2    *** 2                                     2                        2               1                2                   *                     *           *           0’         *                 0            1          **         1
Feet        0                     0            0                                                 5               0                          0              5               0        0                                     0                        0               0                0                                                                                                           0                     0

Max –       2                     2            2                    15               3           2               2                          3              2               2    *** 3                                     2                        N/ 1                             4                   *                     *           *          (25’        *                 5            3          **         2
            5                     0            0                                     0           0               5                          0              0               5        0                                     5                        A 5                              0                                                                  to                                       0                     5
In Feet                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              tran
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      sit)

                                                           * See Approved MPMU
                                                           ** See Approved SSLC-PD Accessory Structure siting regulations
                                                           ***Equal to required perimeter setback

                                                                    A Structure may encroach into the Front Yard to comply with a Build-to Standard.

                                               C. Architectural Elements and Mechanical Equipment into Yard Areas.
                                                          1. All architectural elements and mechanical equipment must be
                                                              confined within the Building Lot or designated Building pad.
                                                          2. Permitted projections of Architectural Elements and mechanical
                                                              equipment into Yard areas shall comply with the Clear View
                                                              requirements established in this Title.
                                                          3. Architectural elements and mechanical equipment, specified
                                                              below, may project into required Yard areas according to the
                                                              standards established in the following table.
                                                                               Front and Corner
                                                             Element                                       Side Yard                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Rear Yard
                                                                                    Side Yard
                                                        Steps, Porches,
                                                       landings, stoops,              6 feet                  2 feet                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4 feet
                                                          and porticos
                                                       Decks > 1’ above
                                                                                      6 feet                  2 feet                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4 feet
                                                         base elevation
                                                        Eaves, cornices,
                                                                                                   3 feet                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4 feet
                                                         and overhangs
                                                      Required overhead
                                                                                                  64 feet                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4 feet
                                                       weather protection
                                                         Bay windows,
                                                      cantilevered rooms,             6 feet                  2 feet                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4 feet
                                                          and awnings
                                                            Balconies          Shall not project into Yard areas.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    6 feet
                                                           Mechanical
                                                                                Shall not project
                                                         equipment and                                        2 feet                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4 feet
                                                            chimneys            into Yard areas.
                                                      Exterior staircases
                                                                               Shall not project into Yard areas.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      4 feet
                                                           as allowed
                                                      Hard Surface (at-
                                                                               Shall not project           2 feet                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  17 feet
                                                           grade level)
                                                                               into Yard areas,
                                                                               excluding the

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           51
                             driveway.


SECTION VII: Revise Section 17.070.050 as follows:

17.07.050 General Design Review Considerations. In addition to the specific
design standards required for each Building form all Development shall comply with
the following:
     A. General
        All Development shall:
              1. minimize the impacts of Development on utility facilities
                  including water, sewer, storm drainage, power, gas, and
                  communications;
              2. incorporate CPTED principles in Building design, site layout, and Landscaping
                  design;
              3. integrate permitted signage into architectural and site design; and
              4. design patios, Accessory Structures, awnings, and other
                  appurtenances to blend with the design of the Primary Buildings
                  and site.
     B. Façades.
              1. All Buildings shall be designed with all Façades using similar
                  quality materials and percentage of windows.
              2. Primary Façade. All Buildings shall have at least one Primary
                  Façade. The Primary Façade shall contain at least one primary
                  entrance. Buildings on Corner Lots shall locate the Primary Façade
                  on the corner closest to the adjacent Street intersection.
              3. Every man-door shall have overhead weather protection at least four-feet in
                  depth.
    C. Height Transition. Any Building located within 100 feet an R-1 district, as
         measured from the closest Property Line, shall be subject to the
         following Height transition requirements:
              1. beginning at the Setback of the subject property abutting the R-1
                 district the maximum Building Height shall be 35 feet measured
                 from Grade to the peak of the roof or, for flat roofed structures,
                 from Grade to the top of the parapet;
              2. an additional one (1) vertical foot of Building Height for every two (2)
                 horizontal feet of distance from the subject property Setback
                 abutting the adjacent R-1 district may be added to achieve the
                 lesser of the maximum district Height or the maximum Building form
                 Height;
              3. this Building Height transition requirement shall end 100 feet (100’)
                  from the abutting R-1 district; and
     D. Traffic Safety and Congestion. All Development shall design and locate on a Site Plan
         all:
              1. vehicular and pedestrian entrances, exits, drives, and walkways;
              2. off-Street parking;
              3. loading and service areas;
              4. circulation patterns within the Development;
              5. connections to abutting and nearby sites; and
              6. site lighting
          to minimize the impacts of the Development on traffic safety and congestion in the
          surrounding neighborhood.
    E. Building and Site Layout. All Developments shall:
              1. minimize Structure silhouette and massing, site location,
                  elevations, and impacts on abutting and nearby Buildings;

                                                                                           52
       2. ensure Compatibility of Building Façades with abutting and nearby
           Buildings in terms of height, color, materials, Primary Façades,
           placement of windows, rooflines and roof pitches, and the
           arrangement of Buildings on approved Development Lot(s);
       3. design energy efficient Structures through the use of energy
           efficient building materials, passive solar designs or Solar Energy
           Systems, and Landscaping; and
       4. use durable, high quality building materials.
F. Roofs. All roof vents, pipes, Antennae, satellite dishes, and other
   roof penetrations and equipment, except chimneys, shall be located
   on the rear Façade or configured to have a minimum visual impact
   as seen from any adjacent Street.
G. Fencing and Clear View Regulations.
       1. Fences.
              a. All fences shall meet the Clear View Area requirements contained in this
                  Title.
              b. All fences shall be maintained in a state of good repair.
              c.   All Fences and retaining walls shall meet applicable
                   building code requirements and shall meet or exceed City
                   engineering standards.
              d.   Development of all fences over six feet (6’) and any
                   retaining wall require a Building Permit.
              e.   Retaining Walls. Where a retaining wall protects a cut below
                   or a fill above the natural Grade and abuts a Boundary Line,
                   such retaining wall may be topped by a fence, wall, or hedge
                   of the same height that would otherwise be permitted at the
                   location, as measured from the Grade of the higher side
                   ground level.
              f.   Barbed Wire. Fences containing strands of barbed wire,
                   including all forms of security wire, shall be prohibited in all
                   districts, except that barbed or security wire shall be
                   permitted as a security fence on Jail property.
              g.   Electrified Fences. Electrified fences shall be prohibited in
                   all districts, except that electrified fences shall be permitted
                   as a security fence on Jail property. This provision does not
                   prohibit an “invisible” fence (wired or wireless) to contain
                   canines with a collar receiver.
              h.   Vacant Lots and Parcels. Vacant Lots and Parcels shall be
                   fenced with a six-foot (6’) temporary security fence.
              i.   All Development shall ensure that the location, height, and
                   materials of walls and fences are Compatible with abutting
                   and nearby Development and the character of the
                   neighborhood, and shall completely conceal storage areas,
                   utility installations, waste containers, or other Uses that are
                   required to be screened from view by the standards in this
                   Title.
              j.   Exceptions.
                          i.    The height and location requirements contained in
                                this Section shall not limit state imposed fencing
                                requirements for public utility installations, public
                                schools, or other public Buildings.
                         ii.    Specialty fences requiring greater heights than
                                allowed in this Title, such as tennis courts or
                                basketball backstops may be allowed, subject to
                                the following conditions:
                                     a) they do not create a hazard,




                                                                                        53
                                        nuisance, or violation of other
                                        ordinances; and
                                    b) the Applicant has submitted the signed
                                        approval of all property Owners whose
                                        property abuts the Applicant's property.
       2. Clear View Regulations.
              a. On Corner Lots, no obstruction to view will be permitted on
                   that portion of the Lot defined as the Clear View Area.
              b. No view-obstructing fence, wall, hedge or planting exceeding
                   four feet (4’) in height above the level of the sidewalk shall be
                   located in the triangular area bounded by lines drawn from a
                   point on the centerline of any driveway, set back fifteen feet
                   (15’) from the Front Property Line to points on the Property
                   Line at the Street in front of the property fifteen feet (15’) on
                   either side of the driveway.
              c. Shade trees may be located or maintained in the Clear View
                   Area in excess of the permitted height, provided the Clear
                   View Area shall be clear of all obstruction between (1) the
                   ground and 14 feet in height above all public Right-of-Ways;
                   or (2) the ground and six feet (6’) in height above any private
                   property.
H. Permanent Structures and Occupiable Space.
       1. All Structures and Occupiable Space shall be permanently affixed
            to a foundation and of permanent construction without a chassis,
            hitch, wheels, or other features that would make the Structure
            mobile.
       2. Prefabricated or relocatable Structures or Occupiable Space shall
            conform to one of the Building forms and accompanying design
            standards established in this Code.
       3. Prefabricated or relocatable Structures or Occupiable Space shall
            be permanently affixed to a foundation, in compliance with the
            International Building Code.
I. Loading and Service Areas. Loading and service areas shall be configured
   to avoid disruption of primary vehicular access and circulation on the site
   and shall be separated from customer parking, pedestrian areas, and
   main Drive Aisles.
J. Waste Containers and Enclosures.
        1. Waste container enclosures are required for all new non-
           residential, Multi-Family, or Townhome, Homeless Shelter, or
           Family Interim Non-Congregate Children Housing Facility
           Development, redevelopment, improvement, or construction.
        2. All waste container enclosures shall be constructed according to
           the requirements of this Title.
        3. All waste containers shall be located at the rear of each Building, in
           the service area, or in another properly fenced and screened area
           approved by the land use authority.
        4. All waste containers shall be located so they are not visible from a public
           Right-of-Way.
        5. Height. Waste container enclosures shall be constructed to a
           Height 12” above the highest part of the waste container that the
           waste container enclosure will house. Waste container enclosures
           shall not be less than six feet (6’) in height, including gates.
        6. Materials and Construction Methods. Waste container
           enclosures shall have walls constructed of finished masonry
           units (block or brick), decorative pre-cast concrete, metal, or a
           combination of these materials. The materials and colors used




                                                                                         54
   for all waste container enclosures shall be Compatible with the
   materials used on the Primary Building.
        a. Masonry and Brick Walls. All exterior Façades of waste
            container enclosures shall be constructed with finished
            block, brick, or split-faced blocks installed according to
            industry standards. All masonry walls shall have a
            permanent block or pre-cast end cap to prevent
            deterioration from climate exposure.
        b. Concrete Walls. Pre-cast or poured concrete walls shall
            have a decorative textured finish. Pre-cast walls shall be
            installed according to industry standards.
        c. Metal Enclosures.
                i.  Exterior walls of any metal waste container enclosure
                    shall be constructed of at a minimum, 16-gauge
                    metal cladding.
              ii.   Attachments of cladding to structural frame shall
                    not exceed 32 inches (32”) center-to-center in
                    either direction.
             iii.   All structural posts, and their foundations, shall be
                    adequately sized to support the walls and gates and
                    shall be spaced at a maximum of six feet (6’) center-
                    to-center.
             iv.    Structural frame members shall have a minimum
                    steel thickness of 3/16th of an inch and consists of
                    structural tubing, angle iron.
              v.    Corrugated roofing or other metal roofing materials are
                    prohibited.
7. Gates. All enclosures shall have service access gates.
        a. All gates shall be constructed with a sturdy metal frame.
        b. Gate posts shall be embedded on the outside of the
            enclosure to limit damage when the waste container is
            removed from the enclosure.
        c. All gates shall be constructed with commercial grade hinges, poles,
            and hasps.
        d. Waste container enclosures with gates that swing out from
            the dumpster shall be set back from the Property Line a
            distance at least equal to the width of the gate.
        e. Gates shall be closed except during scheduled collection periods.
        f. Vinyl gates are prohibited.
8. Pads.
        a. All waste container enclosures and waste containers shall
            be placed on poured concrete or any existing hardened
            paving system.
        b. New pads shall be a minimum thickness of six inches (6”)
            using 3,500 psi steel- reinforced concrete. If subgrade
            conditions are poor, the minimum thickness increases to
            eight inches (8”).
        c. All pads shall have an interior drain or shall have a
            maximum two percent (2%) grade for water to drain from
            the enclosure.
        d. When an enclosure is constructed as part of new
            construction there shall be a minimum ten-foot (10’)
            apron with a minimum 12-inch thickened edge.
9. Bollards and Wheel Stops. The corners of all waste container
   enclosures, where the gate hinges are attached, shall be protected
   with colored bollards to prevent vehicles from driving into the




                                                                                 55
                        enclosure. Each waste container enclosure shall have bollard or
                        pre-cast concrete curb wheel stops attached to the slab to keep the
                        waste container from hitting the back of the enclosure.
                    10. Location. All waste containers and enclosures shall be located on
                        major drives within Developments to provide adequate circulation
                        of waste collection vehicles. Waste container enclosures shall be
                        located so that waste collection vehicles can pull in front of the
                        enclosure, empty, and reset the container without physically
                        removing the container from the enclosure. Waste Containers in
                        Townhome Developments shall be located within 150 feet of each
                        Townhome building and shall be hidden from public view.
                    11. Maintenance. Waste container enclosures shall be maintained
                        in good condition and appearance at all times.
                              a. Screening materials shall be replaced immediately when found to be
                                    in disrepair.
                              b. Gates and latches shall remain in place and shall be kept fully
                                    operable.
                              c. Gates shall be closed except during scheduled collection periods.
                              d. Waste container enclosure pads and access drives shall
                                    be repaired or rebuilt whenever the pavement Structure
                                    deteriorates.
                              e. Graffiti shall be removed immediately.
           K. Utilities. All utility lines shall be underground in designated easements.
                    1. Underground utility lines serving multi-Building Developments shall
                        be placed within Drive Aisles or fire lanes.
                    2. No pipe, conduit, cable, water line, gas, sewage, drainage, or any
                        other energy or service equipment shall be installed permanently
                        above ground, except for backflow devices.
                    3. Gas meters, electric service meter panels, transformers, and other
                        utility equipment shall be grouped together and shall be painted to
                        match the adjacent Building wall.
   L. Solar Energy Systems. All Solar Energy Systems shall comply with the following
                                                                                  standards:
1. Solar Energy Systems that do not comply with the following standards are prohibited.
                    2. Solar Energy Systems in the Historic and Landmark district shall
                        be subject to additional standards found in Chapter 17.03.
                    3. Panels shall be constructed of non-glare glass with an aluminum
                        frame or equal or better quality.
                    4. All Solar Energy Systems shall minimize visual impacts on the
                        surrounding neighborhood by preserving natural vegetation,
                        Screening adjoining properties, or other appropriate measures.
                    5. Setback and Location.
                              a. Building-mounted systems shall be mounted only
                                    on lawfully permitted Structures.
                              b. Free-standing Solar Energy Systems are subject to the
                                    Accessory Structure design standards in this Chapter.
                              c. Free-standing Solar Energy System shall not extend into the Yard
                                    area.
                    6. Roof-Mounted Systems. The following design standards apply to
                        all roof mounted Solar Energy Systems:
                              a. All Solar Energy Systems shall meet all design review,
                                    Screening, and visibility requirements found elsewhere in
                                    this Chapter.
                              b. Pitched Roofs.
                                        i.   Solar Energy Systems that face the Front Yard
                                             shall be mounted a maximum 12 inches from




                                                                                                  56
                     the roof, as measured from the roof surface and
                     the highest edge or surface of the system.
               ii.   No Solar Energy System shall extend past the roof
                     ridge, roof bottom, or side edges of the roof.
              iii.   Solar Energy Systems that face the Front Yard or
                     a public Right-of-Way shall be installed at the
                     same angles and contour as the roof on which
                     they are installed.




       c.    Flat Roof. Solar Energy Systems installed on flat roofs shall
             only extend up to six feet (6’) above the roof and shall be
             placed at a maximum 20° angle.




7. Design.
       a. Solar Energy Systems shall be designed to blend into
          the architecture of the Building upon which it is
          mounted and the surrounding neighborhood.

       b. Solar Energy Systems shall be screened from view from
          public Rights-of-Way through use of one or more of the




                                                                             57
following methods:
     i. parapet wall;
   ii.   setback from the roof edge; or
  iii.   Architectural Elements attached to the Building.




                                                            58
                                     PLANNING COMMISSION STAFF REPORT
MEETING DATE:                  September 5, 2024
PROJECT NUMBERS:               S24-00016
REQUESTS:                      A petition for preliminary subdivision plat approval to subdivide one (1) parcel for a Family
                               Interim Non-congregate Children Housing Facility located at 315 West 3300 South.
PARCEL NUMBERS:                15-25-451-170-0000
PROPERTY OWNER:                Shelter the Homeless, Inc.
APPLICANT:                     Shelter the Homeless, Inc.
TYPE OF APPLICATION:           Administrative – Subdivision Plat
SYNOPSIS:
Shelter the Homeless, Inc. (“STH”) is seeking approval of a
preliminary subdivision plat to develop and operate a 52,795
square-foot Family Interim Non-congregate Children Housing
Facility (“FINCH”) on 1.88 acres located at 315 West 3300
South in South Salt Lake City.

 In 2023, STH purchased the property on which an abandoned
 motel complex was located.

 South Salt Lake City’s municipal code requires all
 development lots to be located within a recorded subdivision
 plat and to be served by adequate public infrastructure.

 The property was originally developed as a motel in
 unincorporated Salt Lake County and was not served by
 public infrastructure that met South Salt Lake City standards
 for any existing zone within the City. In 1998, the motel
 property was annexed into South Salt Lake City under a state
 law, which required the City to annex substandard development upon its owner’s request. At the time it was
 operating as a motel, on a non-subdivided metes and bounds parcel.

 On September 1, 2023, STH submitted a one (1) lot subdivision application to legally subdivide the subject
 property. The Applicant has been working with city staff to review and address infrastructure and development
 concerns.

PUBLIC OUTREACH:
The South Salt Lake City Council held a joint public meeting with the Planning Commission on August 21, 2024, to
introduce publicly the petition. STH as the owner and the Road Home as the operator, along with the State Office
of Homeless Services presented an overview of the project and answered questions.

ENTITLEMENT PATH SUMMARY:
The entitlement process for this petition includes the following applications: 1) Petition for a Zone Change and
Development Agreement; 2) Petition for an Ordinance Amendment; 3) Application for a Subdivision Plat
(Preliminary and Final Plats); 4) Application for a Conditional Use Permit; 5) Application for a Building Permit; and
6) Application for a Certificate of Occupancy.

 The approval of the Preliminary plat is an administrative process that the Planning Commission is the land use
 authority. Approval of the Final plat is also required which is an administrative approval conducted by the
 Community Development Department.

STAFF RECOMMENDATION:
Based upon the information submitted in the application, supporting documentation, and analysis of the relevant
code sections and general plan goals, Staff recommends the Planning Commission move to approve, with
conditions, the petition for preliminary subdivision plat approval to subdivide one (1) parcel located at 315 West
3300 South. Staff’s recommendation is based upon its analysis and findings included below.



                                                           1
                                PLANNING COMMISSION STAFF REPORT

GENERAL INFORMATION:
Location:                   315 West 3300 South
Project Size:               1.88 Acres
Zoning:                     New Proposed Zone – Family Interim Non-congregate Children Housing Facility
“FINCH”
Prior Use:                  Previously operated as a Motel 6
Surrounding Uses:           North: Office/Retail
                            South: Single Family Residential, Retail, Warehouse
                            East: Office, Retail, Gas Station
                            West: I-15
Figure 1: Aerial Photo




Figure 2: Existing Site Conditions




                                                    2
Figure 3: ALTA Survey




                        3
PLANNING COMMISSION AUTHORITY:
17.11.030. Land use authority designations.

Pursuant to state law, the following administrative land use authority designations are made:

   A. Planning Commission. The planning commission is the land use authority on issues of: subdivision
      and subdivision plat approval, vacating, altering or amending a Subdivision Plat; Conditional Use
      Permit Applications; design review for Building Heights as established in this Title; design review for
      projects on Parcels where any portion of the Parcel abuts any residential district; and the issuance of a
      Building or demolition permit in a Historic and Landmark district.

GENERAL PLAN CONSIDERATIONS:
Land Use & Neighborhoods Goal 1. Continue to welcome new residents and businesses into South Salt Lake.

Housing Goal 1. Encourage the equitable development of diverse, safe, affordable, and attractive housing that
is accessible and appropriate for residents of all incomes, needs, ages, backgrounds, and familial status.

Community Facilities Goal 1. Provide a full range of public facilities and services that reflect the needs of the
community.

SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE ANALYSIS
South Salt Lake Municipal Code §17.10 sets forth the following standard for review for subdivision and platting.

             Ordinance                                     Finding                     Notes / Insufficiency
17.10.120 – Requirements for Improvements & Design
  A. Compliance with laws, rules         Petition Complies
     and regulations
  B. South Salt Lake construction        Petition Complies – The applicant will
     specifications and standard         be dedicating 4.5 feet of right of way
     drawings (Road profile              along 300 West and 2.5 feet of right of
     dedications)                        way along Archard Avenue to comply
                                         with all public right of way road profile
                                         standards found in Title 17.10 of the
                                         South Salt Lake Municipal Code. No
                                         dedication is required along 3300
                                         South.
  C. Self-Imposed restrictions           No subdivision restriction has been
                                         proposed by the applicant.
  D. Restrictions due to character       Not applicable
     of the land
17.10.140 – Subdivision Development Lot Standards
  A. All Final Plats shall result in the Petition Complies - The proposed new
     creation of compliant Lots and lot will be 1.88 Acres. The creation of the
     Building sites.                     lot will be in compliance with Title 17
                                         requirements.
  B. Frontage on public street           Petition Complies - The proposed new
                                         lot will have frontage on 3300 South, 300
                                         West and Archard Avenue.
  C. Street right-of-way shall be        Petition Complies – The development
     separate and distinct from          area is separate and distinct from the
     subdivided lots.                    public right of way.
  D. Minimum area and dimensions Petition Complies – There is no
     shall conform.                      minimum acreage requirement in the

                                                       4
                                      current zoning or the proposed new
                                      zone.
E. Side boundary lines shall be at    There is no proposed change in the
   right angles to the street.        shape of the existing parcel.
F. Side boundary lines of lots        Not Applicable
   shall be radial to center of a
   Cul-de-Sac
G. Corner lots for residential uses   Not Applicable
   shall be platted wider than
   interior lots
H. Lots shall not divide City         Petition Complies – The entirety of the
   boundary                           subdivision plat is located within South
                                      Salt Lake City.
I. Double frontage SF residential     Not Applicable
   lots
J. Multiple building yard areas       Petition Complies – The existing parcel
                                      includes four (4) existing two-story
                                      detached buildings. The newly created
                                      zone over the subject property
                                      addresses required setbacks of the
                                      existing structures. The applicant is not
                                      proposing any new modifications to the
                                      existing setbacks. All existing structures
                                      are located within the proposed
                                      development lot.
K. Side lot lines shall be at right   There is no proposed change in the
   angles to street lines             shape of the existing parcel.
L. Dimensions of Corner Lots          There is no proposed change in the
   shall be large enough to allow     shape of the existing parcel.
   for erection of Buildings
M. Depth and width of properties      Petition      Complies    –The    newly
   shall be adequate to provide       proposed zone details site specific
   for off-street parking and         parking requirements for this specific
   loading facilities                 land use. The applicant has submitted a
                                      parking plan that includes 64 on-site
                                      parking stalls, designated Fire Lanes,
                                      designated loading/unloading areas,
                                      and a school bus/facility program
                                      staging area. It is anticipated that all
                                      development activity will take place
                                      internally to the site.

                                      Operation and management of parking
                                      will be addressed as part of the pending
                                      Conditional Use Permit application.
N. New Single-Family lots             Not Applicable
O. If Access from an Arterial or      Not Applicable
   Collector Street is necessary
   for new adjoining lots, such
   lots shall be served by
   separate local street
P. Driveways shall be designed        Petition Complies – The applicant has
   and arranged to avoid vehicles     proposed two (2) vehicular access points
   backing onto Streets               to the subject development: 1) 300
                                      West; and 2) 3300 South. Both access
                                      points will be security controlled by
                                                    5
                                     fencing and gates. The 300 West
                                     Vehicular gate is the primary entrance to
                                     the facility and is setback approximately
                                     40 feet from back of sidewalk to allow
                                     vehicle queuing outside of the right of
                                     way. The 3300 South vehicular gate is
                                     the designated exit path from the facility.
                                     This gate is located at the back of
                                     sidewalk, with right out turning access
                                     only. South Salt Lake Public Safety will
                                     have access to both vehicle gates from
                                     either direction. There is no street
                                     parking permitted on any of the three
                                     frontages.
  Q. Lots shall be laid out to       Petition Complies – The facility has
     provide positive drainage away existing drainage throughout the
     from all buildings.             development parking lot, both above
                                     grade waterways and below grade
                                     catchment systems. At this time, the
                                     applicant is not proposing any
                                     modifications to the existing systems or
                                     any modification to the existing
                                     pavement on-site. Per South Salt Lake
                                     Engineering, if a modification in the
                                     future is proposed, the applicant will be
                                     required to review the existing system
                                     for current compliance. The applicant
                                     has stated that there are no known
                                     drainage issues on-site.
17.10.160(A) - Drainage and Storm Sewers General Requirements
  A. Each plat shall make adequate SSL Engineering has reviewed the
     provision for storm or flood    proposed civil plans for the proposal.
     water runoff.                   The Applicant is not proposing any
                                     modifications        to    the    existing
                                     infrastructure at this time.
17.10.160(B) – Nature of Stormwater Facilities
  A. Applicants may be required to Not applicable
     carry away by pipe or open
     channel any spring or surface
     water that may exist either
     previously to or as a result of
     the subdivision.
  B. Adequate underground            SSL Engineering has reviewed the
     stormwater systems shall be     proposed civil plans for the proposal.
     constructed and maintained.     The Applicant is not proposing any
                                     modifications        to    the    existing
                                     infrastructure at this time.
  C. Accommodation of Upstream       Not applicable
     Drainage Areas.
  D. Adequate storm / flood water    SSL Engineering has reviewed the
     drainage will be provided to    proposed civil plans for the proposal.
     an approved drainage            The Applicant is not proposing any
     watercourse or facility with    modifications        to    the    existing
     capacity.                       infrastructure at this time.
  E. Areas of poor drainage shall    SSL Engineering has reviewed the
     be remediated as applicable.    proposed civil plans for the proposal.
                                                     6
                                          The Applicant is not proposing any
                                          modifications       to     the   existing
                                          infrastructure at this time.
  F. Flood plain areas shall be           Petition Complies – The subject
     preserved upon                       property is located in “Flood Zone X” per
     recommendation of City               FEMA’s floodplain map. This zone has a
     Engineer when necessary for          0.2% annual chance of flood hazard. No
     the health, safety, or welfare of    recommendations are made by South
     the population of the area.          Salt Lake Engineering.
17.10.170 - Water Facilities
  A. Applicant shall extend public        Petition Complies – Jordan Valley
     culinary water supply-system         Water services the subject property. A
     for the purpose of providing         Will Serve Letter has been received from
     an adequate water-supply to          the entity stating service is available. The
     the Plat                             facility has an existing connection.

  B. Applicant shall install adequate     Petition Complies – The existing facility
     water facilities including fire      has two (2) existing on-site fire hydrants
     hydrants.                            (one along 3300 South and one interior
                                          to the site). The South Salt Lake Fire
                                          Marshall has reviewed the two existing
                                          fire hydrants and found that meet South
                                          Salt Lake Fire requirements.
  C. Water extensions shall meet          Not applicable
     City’s standards
  D. Fire flow shall be approved by       Petition Complies – The applicant has
     the Fire Marshal.                    submitted Fire Flow testing calculations
                                          to the South Salt Lake Fire Marshall. The
                                          calculations show sufficient availability
                                          for fire flow rates at the subject hydrants
                                          tested.
  E. Location of all fire hydrants, all   Petition Complies – See above. The
     water and storage supply             South Salt Lake Fire Chief has reviewed
     improvements shall be shown          the locations of the existing hydrants and
     on the approved site plan and        found them to be sufficient.
     the cost of installing shall be
     included on the performance
     guaranty.
  F. A determination shall be made        Petition Complies – There are no
     as to location or extent of          private facilities at this location to be
     facilities to be maintained by       maintained by South Salt Lake City.
     South Salt Lake City, if any.
  G. Fire hydrants required for all       Petition Complies – See above.
     plats.
17.10.180 - Sewer Facilities
  A. The applicant shall install          Petition Complies – Mount Olympus
     sanitary sewer facilities in a       Improvement District services the
     manner prescribed by the             subject property. A Will Serve Letter has
     applicable sanitary sewer            been received from the entity stating
     authority.                           service is available. The facility has an
                                          existing connection.
  B. Sanitary sewer facilities shall      Petition Complies – All existing sewer
     connect with the public              connects are with Mount Olympus
     sanitary sewer at sizes required     Improvement District.
     by the sanitary sewer authority
17.10.190 – Utilities
                                                         7
  A. Utility facilities shall be located   Ordinance Amendment Petition to              Proposed Condition:
     underground in new                    City Council – The applicant is              The applicant shall
     subdivisions.                         petitioning the City Council to be           receive approval in the
                                           exempt from relocating existing above        form of an ordinance
                                           ground power lines along the 300 West        amendment that exempts
                                           and south frontages of the subject           them from this
                                           property.                                    requirement.

  B. Easements centered on Rear       Petition Complies – The plat includes
     Lot Lines shall be provided for  easements where applicable. Due to the
     private and municipal utilities; locations of existing buildings, easement
     such easements shall be at       size and location varies. The applicant
     least 10’ wide.                  has worked with the third-party utility
                                      companies to address utility locations
                                      and required easements.
17.10.200 - Sidewalks, Trails, and Bike Paths
  A. Subdivision shall comply with    Petition Complies – See above for Right           Proposed Condition:
     the applicable road profile –    of Way dedication requirements.                   The applicant shall
     including sidewalks,                                                               remove landscaping and
     landscaping, bike lanes, curb    Pending - 3300 South (UDOT Urban                  resurface the subject area
     and gutter, etc.                 Corridor) - The existing sidewalk and             located between the
                                      concrete park strip will remain in place          proposed security fence
                                      along 3300 South. Due to the insufficient         and the public sidewalks
                                      and varying width of the existing park            along 3300 South and
                                      strip along 3300 South, the applicant will        300 West with either
                                      not be required to plant street trees or          concrete, mulch or gravel
                                      remove the stamped concrete located in            in compliance with Crime
                                      the park strip. The applicant has                 Prevention through
                                      indicated that no irrigation will be              Environmental Design
                                      located     between      the     proposed         (CPTED) standards.
                                      perimeter security fencing and the
                                      public sidewalks. To date, no plan has            Proposed Condition:
                                      been submitted to convert this small              The plat shall include a
                                      segment of existing landscaping to                public access easement
                                      hardscape to comply with Crime                    over the proposed
                                      Prevention     through      Environmental         sidewalk on 300 West.
                                      Design (CPTED) standards.

                                           In addition, the applicant will be closing
                                           one vehicular access point along 3300
                                           South (former Porte Cochere vehicle
                                           entrance) with high back curb.

                                           Streetlights along this corridor are
                                           existing.

                                           Pending - 300 West (SSL Right of Way)
                                           A portion of the 300 West frontage has
                                           a missing sidewalk segment.

                                           South Salt Lake City through a
                                           Community Development Block Grant
                                           (CDBG) will implement a new permanent
                                           sidewalk along the 300 West corridor
                                           where this project fronts.


                                                         8
   B. Trails, pedestrian paths, and      Petition Complies – The site is relatively
      bike paths shall relate            flat. Public and internal pathways relate
      appropriately to topography.       appropriately to topography on the site
                                         and comply with South Salt Lake code.
   C. Trails, pedestrian paths, and      Petition Complies – The Trails Master
      bike paths shall be provided in    Plan does not include any facilities
      accordance with the Trails         adjacent to the subject property. *Note –
      Master Plan.                       The Millcreek Trail is located on the
                                         north side of 3300 South.

STAFF RECOMMENDATION:
Based upon the information submitted in the application, supporting documentation, and analysis of the
relevant code sections and general plan goals, staff recommends the Planning Commission move to approve,
with conditions, the petition for preliminary subdivision plat approval to subdivide one (1) parcel for a Family
Interim Non-congregate Children Housing Facility located at 315 West 3300 South based on the findings of
fact, conclusions of law and conditions of approval for the subdivision found below.

Findings of Fact:

       1. In 2023, Shelter the Homeless, Inc. (the “Applicant”) purchased property located at 315 West 3300
          South in South Salt Lake City, on which an abandoned motel complex (the “Property”) was located.

       2. At the time of purchase, the Property was located in the Transit Oriented Development land use
          district. The Transit Oriented Development land use district prohibits new homeless shelters, and all
          uses that are not specifically listed in the land use matrix.

       3. South Salt Lake City’s municipal code requires all development lots to be located within a recorded
          subdivision plat and to be served by adequate public infrastructure.

       4. At the time it was originally developed as a motel, the Property was developed in unincorporated
          Salt Lake County and was not served by public infrastructure that met City standards applied to the
          Transit Oriented Development or any existing zone within the City.

       5. In 1998, prior owners annexed the motel property into South Salt Lake City under a state law, which
          required the City to annex substandard development upon its owner’s request.

       6. At the time it was originally developed as a motel, the Property was not included in a legal
          subdivision plat.

       7. Historically, Motel uses adjacent to the I-15 corridor are occupied for less than 24 hours at a time,
          are not designed to support long term occupancy, are not designed to accommodate pets, and on
          average, enjoy no more than a 50% occupancy on an annual basis.

       8. In June 2023 after the Applicant purchased the motel Property, the Applicant submitted a
          predevelopment application to review the proposal to convert the abandoned motel complex into
          a new Family Interim Non-congregate Children Housing Facility (“FINCH”).

       9. Based on the Applicants predevelopment application, city staff determined that the proposal would
          require approval of the following steps to achieve full development entitlements and operation
          permits:

               a.   Petition for a Zoning Map Amendment and Development Agreement
               b.   Petition for an Ordinance Amendment
               c.   Application for a Subdivision Plat
               d.   Application for a Conditional Use Permit
               e.   Application for a Building Permit
                                                       9
               f.   Application for a Certificate of Occupancy

        10. On September 1, 2023, the Applicant submitted petitions for a Zoning Map Amendment and a
            Ordinance Amendment for modifications to the South Salt Lake Municipal Code to create a new
            FINCH zone. The petition application was deemed complete on July 5, 2024.

        11. The petitions are pending approval by the South Salt Lake City Council for the Zoning Map
            Amendment and the Ordinance Amendment to rezone the subject property from Transit Oriented
            Development to a new Family Interim Non-Congregate Housing Facility “FINCH”, with specific
            operational commitments to lessen the impact of the Use on the public infrastructure, the cost of
            and demand on public safety services and the potential for adverse impacts on surrounding
            properties.

        12. On September 1, 2023, the Applicant submitted a one (1) lot subdivision application to create a
            legally subdivided Development Lot and provide enhanced public infrastructure for the increased
            intensity of Use from the prior Motel Use to a more intensive Use and occupancy per Title 17.10 of
            the South Salt Lake Municipal Code.

        13. Completion of all required subdivision improvements, dedications, and final plat recordation is
            essential for the development, occupancy and successful operation of the proposed facility.

        14. On September 1, 2023, the Applicant submitted an application for a Conditional Use Permit (“CUP”)
            to develop and operate a 52,795 square foot Family Interim Non-Congregate Housing facility on the
            1.88 acres located at 315 West 3300 South.

        15. Upon recording of the final subdivision plat, the South Salt Lake Planning Commission may consider
            a Conditional Use Permit application for the proposed facility.

        16. Staff has reviewed this subdivision application for compliance with South Salt Lake Municipal Code
            Sections 17.10.120, 17.10.130, 17.10.140, 17.10.150, 17.10.160, 17.10.170, 17.10.180, 17.10.190
            and 17.10.200, and found that this subdivision application is compliant with this section, as outlined
            above.

        17. South Salt Lake City received a Community Development Block Grant to construct sidewalk on 300
            West adjacent to the subject property.

Conclusions of Law:

   1.    The subdivision, as specifically conditioned below, is consistent with the South Salt Lake City General
         Plan.

   2.    The subdivision, as specifically conditioned, complies with the requirements of the South Salt Lake
         Code.

   3.    The subdivision, as specifically conditioned below, does not compromise the health, safety, or welfare
         of: Persons employed within or using the proposed development; Those residing or working in the
         vicinity of the proposed use or development; or Property or improvements in the vicinity of the
         proposed use or development.

   4.    The subdivision, as specifically conditioned below does not impose disproportionate burdens on the
         citizens of the city.

Subdivision Plat Conditions of Approval:

   1.    The Applicant will continue to work with City staff to make all technical corrections necessary prior to
         recording;

                                                       10
   2.    Prior to plat recordation and any additional development of the subsequent lot, the Applicant must
         provide city staff the final plat mylar to include notarized signatures of owners’ consent to dedication;
         obtain signatures of all entities indicated on the subdivision plat attached hereto;

   3.    The Applicant shall complete (or post an adequate improvement completion assurance), warrant and
         post required warranty assurance for all required public infrastructure improvements;

   4.    The final subdivision plat shall include plat notes for Title Report (dated July 17, 2023) Exceptions 10,
         12, and 16 that are blanket in nature and not plottable.

   5.    The Applicant shall receive approval from the South Salt Lake City Council in the form of an ordinance
         amendment that exempts them from undergrounding existing above grade powerlines. If approval is
         not granted, the Applicant shall be required to underground powerlines.

   6.    The Applicant shall obtain all required Utah Department of Transportation (“UDOT”) right of way
         encroachment permits, and South Salt Lake Building permits for the proposed perimeter security
         fencing prior to commencing construction.

   7.    The applicant shall remove landscaping and resurface the subject area located between the proposed
         security fence and the public sidewalks along 3300 South and 300 West with either concrete, mulch
         or gravel in compliance with Crime Prevention through Environmental Design (CPTED) standards.

   8.    The Applicant shall ensure that all site improvements are installed consistent with the requirements of
         the South Salt Lake City Municipal Code;

   9.    The applicant shall dedicate an easement to the City of South Salt Lake for purposes of storm water
         management practices and ensure the plat includes language of the dedication of such easement, in
         a form as approved by the City Attorney’s Office;

   10.   The applicant shall comply with all applicable International Building Codes and International Fire
         Codes and must obtain and complete a South Salt Lake building permit;

   11.   All items of the staff report.

PLANNING COMMISSION OPTIONS:
   Subdivision:

   Option 1: Approval
   Move to approve the application by Shelter the Homeless, Inc. for a preliminary subdivision plat, S24-00016,
   to subdivide one (1) parcel for a Family Interim Non-Congregate Housing Facility located at 315 West 3300
   South., based on the findings and conclusions in the staff report, with the conditions enumerated in the staff
   report and on the record.

   Option 2: Continuance
   Move to table the decision for the application by Shelter the Homeless, Inc. for a preliminary subdivision
   plat, S24-00016, to a date certain to allow the Applicant and Staff time to respond to specific inquiries or
   concerns raised by the Planning Commission, or to allow the Planning Commission more time to consider
   the proposal.

Attachments:
   1.  Preliminary Plat
   2.  ALTA Survey
   3.  Civils




                                                       11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SURVEYOR'S CERTIFICATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                      SHELTER THE HOMELESS SUBDIVISION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                LOCATED IN THE SOUTHEAST QUARTER AND SOUTHWEST QUARTER OF SECTION 25,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I, BRIAN A. LINAM DO HEREBY CERTIFY THAT I AM A PROFESSIONAL LAND SURVEYOR, AND THAT I HOLD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LICENSE NO. 7240531, IN ACCORDANCE WITH TITLE 58, CHAPTER 22, OF THE PROFESSIONAL ENGINEERS AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LAND SURVEYORS ACT; I FURTHER CERTIFY THAT BY AUTHORITY OF THE OWNERS I HAVE COMPLETED A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TOWNSHIP 1 SOUTH, RANGE 1 WEST,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SURVEY OF THE PROPERTY DESCRIBED ON THIS SUBDIVISION PLAT IN ACCORDANCE WITH SECTION 17-23-17,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     HAVE VERIFIED ALL MEASUREMENTS, AND HAVE SUBDIVIDED SAID TRACT OF LAND INTO LOTS AND STREETS,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TOGETHER WITH EASEMENTS, HEREAFTER TO BE KNOWN AS SHELTER THE HOMELESS SUBDIVISION AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            THAT THE SAME HAS BEEN CORRECTLY SURVEYED AN MONUMENTED ON THE GROUND AS SHOWN ON THIS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PLAT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          STREET MONUMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3300 SOUTH & 300 WEST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        AND THAT THE SAME HAS BEEN CORRECTLY SURVEYED AND STAKED ON THE GROUND AS SHOWN ON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (FOUND BRASS CAP )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GRAPHIC SCALE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        THIS PLAT.
                                                                                                                    3300 SOUTH STREET                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BOUNDARY DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       S 89°53'45" W 117.91'
                                                                                                                      (PUBLIC ROAD)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 30                         0       15       30                               60
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        BEGINNING AT A POINT ON THE SOUTH LINE OF 3300 SOUTH STREET, SAID POINT BEING SOUTH 89°53'45"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S 00°05'26" W 39.00'
                                                                                                                       WIDTH VARIES                                                                                                                                                                                      NORTHEAST CORNER, LOT 10, BLOCK 4,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             WEST 85.00 FEET AND SOUTH 0°05'26" WEST 6.0 FEET FROM THE NORTH EAST CORNER OF LOT 10, BLOCK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                SOUTH 6.00'                                                                                               TEN ACRE PLAT "A"; BIG FIELD SURVEY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4, TEN ACRE PLAT "A"; BIG FIELD SURVEY, SAID POINT ALSO BEING SOUTH 89°53'45" WEST 117.91 FEET AND
                                                                         N 75°50'00" E 26.09'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (NOT FOUND)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ( IN FEET )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SOUTH 00°05'26" WEST 39.00 FEET FROM THE STREET MONUMENT LOCATED AT THE INTERSECTION OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1 inch = 30 ft.                                      3300 SOUTH STREET AND 300 WEST STREET, AND RUNNING THENCE SOUTH 0°05'26" WEST 103.98 FEET;

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     N 87°15'24" E 68.07'                                           6.00'      S 89°53'45" W 85.00'                                                                                                                                          ROCKY MOUNTAIN NOTE:                                                                                                                                                                       THENCE NORTH 89°54'13" EAST 85.00 FEET TO THE WESTERLY LINE OF 300 WEST STREET; THENCE SOUTH
                                                                                                            N 88°08'00" E 127.00'                                                                      N 86°57'40" E 78.13'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  UTILITIES SHALL HAVE THE RIGHT TO INSTALL, MAINTAIN AND OPERATE THEIR EQUIPMENT ABOVE AND BELOW GROUND AND ALL                                                                             0°05'30" WEST ALONG SAID WESTERLY LINE OF 300 WEST STREET 64.10 FEET; THENCE SOUTH 89°54'27"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OTHER RELATED FACILITIES WITHIN THE PUBLIC UTILITY EASEMENTS IDENTIFIED ON THIS PLAT MAP AS MAY BE NECESSARY OR                                                                            WEST 153.00 FEET; THENCE SOUTH 0°09'00" WEST 112.99 FEET TO THE NORTHERLY LINE OF GREEN ACRES
                                                                                NOT SET                                                                                       NOT SET                                                                                                                                               POB                                                                                                                                                                      DESIRABLE IN PROVIDING UTILITY SERVICES WITHIN AND WITHOUT THE LOTS IDENTIFIED HEREIN, INCLUDING THE RIGHT OF                                                                              ACCORDING TO THE OFFICIAL PLAT THEREOF ON FILE IN THE SALT LAKE COUNTY RECORDER'S OFFICE;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SET REBAR & CAP                                                                                                                                                          ACCESS TO SUCH FACILITIES AND THE RIGHT TO REQUIRE REMOVAL OF ANY OBSTRUCTIONS INCLUDING STRUCTURES, TREES                                                                                 THENCE SOUTH 89°54'40" WEST 161.89 FEET TO THE NORTHEAST CORNER OF LOT 34 OF SAID GREEN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             10.0' P.U.E.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            S 00°05'26" W 103.98'
                                                                                                  10.0' P.U.E.
        SET REBAR & CAP                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      AND VEGETATION THAT MAY BE PLACE WITHIN THE P.U.E. THE UTILITY MAY REQUIRE THE LOT OWNER TO REMOVE ALL                                                                                     ACRES;THENCE SOUTH 00°05'30" WEST 118.09 FEET TO THE SOUTHEAST CORNER OF SAID LOT 34;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             STRUCTURES WITHIN THE P.U.E. AT THE LOT OWNER'S EXPENSE, OR THE UTILITY MAY REMOVE SUCH STRUCTURES AT THE LOT                                                                              THENCE NORTH 89°59'20" WEST 16.45 FEET TO INTERSTATE I-15 RIGHT OF WAY LINE THE FOLLOWING (2)
                                                                                                                                                                               THE MOUNTAIN STATES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OWNER'S EXPENSE. AT NO TIME MAY ANY PERMANENT STRUCTURES BE PLACED WITHIN THE P.UE. OR ANY OTHER OBSTRUCTION                                                                               TWO COURSES: 1) NORTH 11°20'08" WEST 261.97 FEET; 2) NORTH 0°09'00" EAST 130.73 FEET TO THE SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                          TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            WHICH INTERFERES WITH THE USE OF THE P.U.E. WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN APPROVAL OF THE UTILITIES WITH FACILITIES IN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LINE 3300 SOUTH; THENCE ALONG SAID SOUTHERLY RIGHT OF WAY LINE THE FOLLOWING (5) FIVE
                                                                                                                                                                                      CO. EASEMENT                                                                                                                                                            1-00                                                                                                                                           THE P.U.E.                                                                                                                                                                                 COURSES: 1) NORTH 75°50'00" EAST 26.09 FEET; 2) NORTH 88°08'00" EAST 127.00 FEET; 3) SOUTH 6.00 FEET;
                                                                                                                                                                           RECORDED: MARCH 19, 1971                                                                                                                                                     5 -45
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1 5-2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4) NORTH 86°57'40" EAST 78.13 FEET; 5) NORTH 87°15'24" EAST 68.07 FEET TO THE POINT OF BEGINNING.
                               N 00°09'00" E 130.73'




                                                                                                                                                                                  ENTRY NO.: 2376075                                                                                                                                           L#                                                                                                                                                            ENBRIDGE ENERGY APPROVES THIS PLAT SOLELY FOR THE PURPOSE OF CONFIRMING THAT THE PLAT CONTAINS PUBLIC UTILITY
                                                                                                                                                                                BOOK/PAGE: 2943/907                                                                                                                                         SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EASEMENTS. DOMINION ENERGY MAY REQUIRE OTHER EASEMENTS IN ORDER TO SERVE THIS DEVELOPMENT. THIS APPROVAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DOES NOT CONSTITUTE ABROGATION OR WAIVER OF ANY OTHER EXISTING RIGHTS, OBLIGATIONS OR LIABILITIES PROVIDED BY                                                                              CONTAINS 81,890 SQ. FT. OR 1.880 ACRES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LAW OR EQUITY. THIS APPROVAL DOES NOT CONSTITUTE ACCEPTANCE, APPROVAL OR ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF ANY TERMS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CONTAINED IN THE PLAT, INCLUDING THOSE SET IN THE OWNER'S DEDICATION AND THE NOTES AND DOES NOT CONSTITUTE A                                                                               1 LOT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        BENCHMARK                                  ON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     A L LA ND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ENGINEERING &




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PROFESSI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  UR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GUARANTEE OF PARTICULAR TERMS OF NATURAL GAS SERVICE. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION PLEASE CONTACT QUESTAR                                                                                                                                                                                      7240531




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    V EY OR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LAND SURVEYING
         (CONTROLLED ACCESS)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             RIGHT-OF-WAY DEPARTMENT AT 1-800-366-8532.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                BRIAN A.
                                                                                                                                                                                INGRESS/EGRESS EASEMENT                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SET REBAR & CAP                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LINAM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     9138 SOUTH STATE STREET SUITE # 100
           (PUBLIC HIGHWAY)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             NOTES:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 08/20/2024




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              300 WEST STREET
                                                                                                                                                                               RECORDED: OCTOBER 22, 1986                                                                                                                           SET REBAR & CAP                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SANDY, UTAH 84070 (801) 542-7192




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      T E OF UT A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (PUBLIC ROAD)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1. STATEMENT OF ACCURACY, MINIMUM LINEAR CLOSURE OF 1:20,000.
             INTERSTATE -15




                                                                                                                                                                                        ENTRY NO.: 4336018




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                66-FOOT WIDE
                                                                                                                                                                                     BOOK/PAGE: 5830/2274                                                                                                                             N 89°54'13" E 85.00'                                                                                                                                                   2. OWNER HEREBY CONVEYS TO SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY AND ITS AGENTS A NON-EXCLUSIVE PERPETUAL EASEMENT OVER, ON                                                                                                                                     www.benchmarkcivil.com
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      80.50'                                                                                                                                                 AND IN LOT 1 FOR THE PURPOSE OF ACCESS TO THE PRIVATE STORMWATER MANAGEMENT SYSTEM(S) FOR THE MANAGEMENT,




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S 00°05'30" W 64.10'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4.50'                                                                                                                              INSPECTION, MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR THEREOF.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S 00°05'30" W 64.10'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       AREA HEREBY DEDICATED                                                                                                                                                                     LINE TABLE                                            LINE TABLE
                                                       SET REBAR & CAP                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TO SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       289 SQ FT OR 0.007 ACRES                                                                                                                                                    LINE #       BEARING        DISTANCE                    LINE #     BEARING                       DISTANCE                                                                                                                OWNER'S DEDICATION
                                                                                                                                                                       LOT 1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         L2        S 00°00'00" E    117.13'                     L12      S 41°57'47" E                       15.83'                                                                        KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS THAT, THE UNDERSIGNED OWNER SHELTER THE HOMELESS INC.,
                                                                                                                                                                     81,559 SQ FT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      A UTAH LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY, OF THE ABOVE DESCRIBED TRACT OF LAND TO BE HEREAFTER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     L3       N 90°00'00" W      8.91'                      L13      S 00°00'00" E                    103.38'
                                                                                                                                                                     1.872 ACRES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       KNOWN AS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SET REBAR & CAP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     L4        S 41°57'47" E     1.96'                      L14      N 88°32'12" E                       39.85'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          S 00°05'30" W 1185.40' (RECORD) 1185.36' (MEASURED)
                                                                                                                                                           315 WEST 3300 SOUTH                                                                                                                              148.50'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4.50'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     L5       N 90°00'00" E      6.04'                      L15      N 88°47'06" E                       79.16'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SHELTER THE HOMELESS SUBDIVISION
                                                           L9
                                                                  L17
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S 89°54'27" W 153.00'                                                                                                                  33.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     L6        S 00°00'00" E    11.85'                      L16      S 89°21'02" E                       83.02'                                                                        DOES HEREBY CERTIFY TO HAVE CAUSED THIS PLAT TO BE PREPARED AND DOES HEREBY DEDICATE
                                                                   L8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SET REBAR & CAP                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      FOR THE PERPETUAL USE OF THE PUBLIC ALL PUBLIC ROADS AND OTHER AREAS SHOWN ON THIS PLAT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S 00°09'00" W 112.99'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     L7        S 23°14'17" E    83.59'                      L17     N 01°30'58" W                        4.38'                                                                         AS INTENDED FOR PUBLIC USE. THE UNDERSIGNED OWNER(S) ALSO HEREBY CONVEYS TO ANY AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             INC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ALL PUBLIC UTILITY COMPANIES A PERPETUAL, NON-EXCLUSIVE EASEMENT OVER THE PUBLIC UTILITY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           BASIS OF BEARINGS
                                                         L10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I -01   8                                                                                                                                                    L8       N 88°41'43" E      4.56'                                                                                                                                                 EASEMENTS SHOWN ON THIS PLAT, THE SAME TO BE USED FOR THE INSTALLATION, MAINTENANCE,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 T ER -451                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             AND OPERATION OF UTILITY LINES AND FACILITIES. THE UNDERSIGNED OWNER(S) ALSO HEREBY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               N     25                                                                                                                                                              L9       N 90°00'00" W      2.34'
                                                                          EASEMENT IN FAVOR OF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ISH E 15-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CONVEYS ANY OTHER EASEMENTS AS SHOWN ON THIS PLAT TO THE PARTIES INDICATED AND FOR THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TF      L#                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PURPOSES SHOWN HEREON.
                                                                          ENBRIDGE ENERGY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CA RCE                                                                                                                                                                           L10       S 11°20'08" E    25.44'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      P A                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LEGEND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     L11       S 23°14'17" E    77.73'                                                                                                                                                 IN WITNESS WHEREOF THE OWNER HAS HEREUNTO SET THIS _______ DAY OF ________ A.D., 20_____.
                                                                          L7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EX. BRASS CAP MONUMENT (RING & LID)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BOUNDARY CORNER
                                                                73.39'
                                                                '
                                                         261.97




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          BY: _______________________
                                                                         L11




                                                                                                                                                           ROCKY MOUNTAIN
                                                                                                                                                           POWER EASEMENT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (SET 5 8 REBAR AND CAP OR AS
                                                                                                                                                              "CENTERLINE"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        NOTED ON PLAT) "STAMPED BENCHMARK                                                                       PRINT NAME:________________________
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ENG."
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TITLE: ______________________________
                                                               8" W




                                                                                                                                            SET REBAR & CAP                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       BOUNDARY LINE
                                                                                            L6




                                                                                                                 L3
                                                                                           L5                                                                         L15                                          L16
                                                                       0'0



                                                                                                L4




                                                                               L14                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ADJACENT PROPERTY
                                                                                                                                                                                    S 89°54'40" W 161.89'
                                                                N 11°2

                                                                                           L1
                                                                                            2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SET REBAR & CAP                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        STREET CENTER/MONUMENT LINE                                                                                                        CORPORATE ACKNOWLEDGMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EASEMENT                                                                                              STATE OF UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               }
                                                                                                                           S 00°05'30" W 118.09'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   S.S.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        County of Salt Lake

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VICINITY MAP                                                                                                                                         ON THE ______ DAY OF ____________ A.D., 20__, PERSONALLY APPEARED BEFORE ME______________,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       WHOSE IDENTITIES ARE PERSONALLY KNOWN TO ME (OR PROVEN ON THE BASIS OF SATISFACTORY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ELDREDGE AVE.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    REDFIELD AVE.                                                                      EVIDENCE) AND WHO, BY ME DULY SWORN/AFFIRMED, DID SAY THAT THEY ARE A MANAGING MEMBER
                                                                                                                                                                        NY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OF SHELTER THE HOMELESS, INC., AND THAT THE OWNER'S DEDICATION WAS SIGNED BY HIM/HER ON
                                                                                                                                                                      PA S                                 LC                              LLC
                                                                                                                                                                    M                                   ,L                              D,




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     WASHINGTON ST.
                                                                                                                                                                 C O RE                             N D                               N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                BEHALF OF SAID CORPORATION, AND ACKNOWLEDGED TO ME THAT SAID CORPORATION EXECUTED
                                                                                                                                                                           05
                                                                                       '




                                                                                                                                                                    AC                          RA       ES                         A       S
                                                                                116.89




                                                                                                                                                               S
                                                                                                                                                             GA EN 51-0                      Y B ACR -006                         BR RE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                THE SAME.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                LY N AC 1-007
                                                                                                 L13




                                                                                                                                                           R                               L
                                                                                                  L2




                                                                                                                                                        TA     RE   5-4                  MI     N       1                    M I
                                                                                                                                                    UES 35, G 15-2                  S  FA REE 5-45                       S FA REE 5-45
                                                                                                                                                                                          G       2                          , G -2
                                                                                                                                                   Q OT L#                        MA 6,        5-                      A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OM T 37 # 15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MY COMMISSION EXPIRES: __________________               COMMISSION NUMBER:_________________
                                                                                                                                                     L CE
                                                                                                                                                                              T HO OT 3 L# 1                       H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  T LO EL
                                                                                                                 115.59'




                                                                                                                                                         R                        L CE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (DATE)
                                                                                                                                                      PA                              R                                   RC
                                                                                                                                                                                   PA                                  PA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3300 SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PRINT NAME                                        NOTARY PUBLIC RESIDING IN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SALT LAKE COUNTY
                           AREA HEREBY DEDICATED                                                                                   3.85'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                UNIO
                           TO SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY                                                                                 10.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I - 15
                            42 SQ FT OR 0.001 ACRES                                                                                3.11'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  N PA
                                                               NOT SET                                                                2.50'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SPRINT                                                                                                 SITE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      RAILROAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    300 WEST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CIFIC
                                                                      2.55'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       STREET MONUMENT
                                                                             N 89°59'20" W 16.45'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ℄300 WEST                                                                                                                             APPROVED THIS_____ DAY OF ___________,                                                                              ARCHARD AVE.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (FOUND BRASS CAP )                                                                                                                             A.D. 20____.
                                                                                                                                                                             ARCHARD AVENUE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               NORTH

                                                                                                                                                                              (PUBLIC ROAD)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MARY ETTA AVE.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          NTS

                                                                                                 PLANNING COMMISSION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SALT LAKE COUNTY SURVEYOR
DEVELOPER:                                                                                                                                                                                                            ENBRIDGE ENERGY                                                                       CENTURY LINK                                                                                                                COMCAST                                                                                SOUTH SALT LAKE FIRE MARSHAL
                                                                               APPROVED AS TO FORM THIS ______ DAY OF
SHELTER THE HOMELESS                                                           ______________________________, A.D., 20___.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                APPROVED THIS_____ DAY OF ___________,                                     APPROVED THIS_____ DAY OF ___________,                                                                        APPROVED THIS_____ DAY OF ___________,                                                                            APPROVED AS TO FORM THIS_____ DAY OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     RECORD OF SURVEY FILE NO. 24-06-0303                                                 SHELTER THE HOMELESS SUBDIVISION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                A.D. 20____.                                                               A.D. 20____.                                                                                                  A.D. 20____.                                                                                                      ___________, A.D. 20____.
LAURIE HOPKINS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LOCATED IN THE SOUTHEAST QUARTER AND SOUTHWEST
801-359-0698                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             QUARTER OF SECTION 25, TOWNSHIP 1 SOUTH, RANGE 1 WEST,
LHOPKINS@HOMELESSUTAH.ORG                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, SALT LAKE COUNTY, STATE OF UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SHEET 1 OF 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           COUNTY SURVEYOR REVIEWER                                  DATE
                                                                                                 PLANNING COMMISSION APPROVAL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SOUTH SALT LAKE FIRE MARSHAL                           DATE

                                                                                                                                                                                     ROCKY MOUNTAIN POWER                                                                SALT LAKE COUNTY                                                        SOUTH SALT LAKE COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT                                                                                                               SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY ENGINEER                                APPROVAL AS TO FORM                                                                       CITY APPROVAL                                                                 SALT LAKE COUNTY RECORDER
                                                                                                        BENCHMARK                                                                                                                                                        HEALTH DEPARTMENT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     RECORDED #__________________
                                                                                                                                                                                   APPROVED THIS_____ DAY OF ___________,                                                                                                                        APPROVED AS TO FORM THIS ______ DAY OF                                                                                                                                                                             APPROVED AS TO FORM THIS_____                                 PRESENTED TO THE MAYOR OF SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY THIS
                                                                                                       ENGINEERING &                                                               A.D. 20____.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            APPROVED THIS____________________DAY                                                                 ______________________________, A.D., 20___.                                                                                                    APPROVED AS TO FORM THIS_____ DAY OF                               DAY OF___________, A.D., 20__                                 _______DAY OF______, A.D.,20__ AT WHICH TIME                                            STATE OF UTAH, COUNTY OF SALT LAKE, RECORDED AND
                                                                                                      LAND SURVEYING                                                                                                                        OF_______________________A.D., 20___                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ___________, A.D. 20____.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  THIS SUBDIVISION WAS APPROVED AND ACCEPTED                                              FILED AT THE REQUEST OF________________________
                                                                                                 9138 SOUTH STATE STREET SUITE # 100                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DATE______________TIME_________BOOK______PAGE_______
                                                                                                    SANDY, UTAH 84070 (801) 542-7192
                                                                                                        www.benchmarkcivil.com                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ATTEST: CITY RECORDER                                         FEE $________
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ______________            _________________________________
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S.L.CO. COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT                                                                  COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR DATE                                                                                                              SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY ENGINEER                   DATE               SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY ATTORNEY                                                     SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY. MAYOR                                                                          SALT LAKE COUNTY RECORDER

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2307141sp.dwg
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SURVEYOR'S CERTIFICATE                                                                                        VICINITY MAP
                                                                                                               ALTA/NSPS LAND TITLE SURVEY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        NORTH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ELDREDGE AVE.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TO:                                                                                                                                                                 REDFIELD AVE.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OLD REPUBLIC NATIONAL TITLE INSURANCE COMPANY
                                                                                                                                                                               LOCATED IN THE SOUTHEAST QUARTER OF SECTION 25,




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          WASHINGTON ST.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ADJUST ACCORDINGLY FOR REDUCED SIZE SHEETS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SHELTER THE HOMELESS, INC, A UTAH CORPORATION
                                                                                                                                                                                      TOWNSHIP 1 SOUTH, RANGE 1 WEST,




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SCALE MEASURES 1-INCH ON FULL SIZE SHEETS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  THIS IS TO CERTIFY THAT THIS MAP OR PLAT AND THE SURVEY ON WHICH IT IS BASED WERE
                                                                                                                                                                                         SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MADE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE 2021 MINIMUM STANDARD DETAIL REQUIREMENTS FOR
                                                                                                                                                                                 SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ALTA/NSPS LAND TITLE SURVEYS, JOINTLY ESTABLISHED AND ADOPTED BY ALTA AND NSPS,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  AND INCLUDES ITEMS 1, 2, 4, 5, 8, 11 AND 13 OF TABLE 'A' THEREOF. THE FIELDWORK WAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GRAPHIC SCALE                                                                    COMPLETED ON AUGUST 30, 2023.                                                                                                                                                              3300 SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   30                                         0                                  15                     30   60




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            UNIO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I - 15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       A L LA ND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ON          S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                N PA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ( IN FEET )                                                                                                                                       11-7-23




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PROFESSI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    UR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SITE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           RAILROAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  300 WEST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         7240531




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      V EY OR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1 inch = 30 ft.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CIFIC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         BRIAN A.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LINAM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ARCHARD AVE.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          T E OF UT A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     NORTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              STREET MONUMENT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        No.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3300 SOUTH & 300 WEST                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                MARY ETTA AVE.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LEGAL DESCRIPTION PER TITLE REPORT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (FOUND BRASS CAP )
                                                                              SS
                                                                                                                      3300 SOUTH STREET                                                                                           SSMH                                                                        N 89°53'45" E                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NTS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            RIM=4245.87
                        SSMH                                                                                              (PUBLIC ROAD)                                                                                                                                                   SDIB                                                                                                                                                                                                                    BEGINNING AT A POINT ON THE SOUTH LINE OF 3300 SOUTH STREET, SAID POINT BEING SOUTH                           REFERENCE DOCUMENTS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2307141a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       IE 8" W = 4241.36




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      9/7/2023
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SSMH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CHECKED BY
                 RIM=4245.87                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TOG=4245.52                                                                                                                                                                                                             89°53'45" WEST 85 FEET AND SOUTH 0°05'26" WEST 6.0 FEET FROM THE NORTH EAST CORNER OF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          FIELD CREW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      IE 4" SE = 4241.96




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VP/CB
                                                                                                                           WIDTHSSVARIESSS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DRAWN BY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        RIM=4247.36




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DWG FILE
           IE 12" N = 4239.80                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               S 89°53'45" W 85.00'                                                                                                                                                                                  LOT 10, BLOCK 4, TEN ACRE PLAT "A"; BIG FIELD SURVEY, AND RUNNING THENCE SOUTH 0°05'26"                       R1) COMMITMENT FOR TITLE INSURANCE ISSUED BY OLD REPUBLIC NATIONAL TITLE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 BAL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     KO
          IE 4" SW = 4240.70                                                  S                  SS                    SS                                                                                    SS                    SS                 SS            S                                                                                          IE 12" NW = 4241.29                                                        S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  WEST 103.98 FEET; THENCE NORTH 89°54'13" EAST 85.00 FEET TO THE WEST LINE OF 300 WEST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                INSURANCE, FILE NO. 2374762MGH, EFFECTIVE DATE JULY 17, 2023.
             IE 8" E = 4240.31                                                                                                                                                                                          SOUTH 6.00'                                             SS     S 00°05'26" W 6.00'                                                         IE 8" S = 4241.43
                                                                                                      W

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  STREET; THENCE SOUTH 0°05'30" WEST ALONG SAID WEST LINE OF 300 WEST STREET 64.1 FEET;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4246                                                                              IE 8" E = 4241.61                                                                                                                             THENCE SOUTH 89°54'27" WEST 153.00 FEET; THENCE SOUTH 0°09' WEST 113.12 FEET TO THE
N 75°50'00" E 26.09'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        S 68.07'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S
                                                                                                                                           N 88°08'00" E 127.00'GAS                                                           " E 78.13'GAS                                    N 87 °15'24" E        W CBGAS W                                                       W                  W                                        W                                                                                NORTH LINE OF GREEN ACRES ACCORDING TO THE OFFICIAL PLAT THEREOF ON FILE IN THE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   N 86°57'40
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  W         GAS         W                  W               W      GAS W       GAS  WW                                                    GAS               GAS                                                                                                                                    SALT LAKE COUNTY RECORDER'S OFFICE; THENCE SOUTH 89°54'45" WEST 162.52 FEET TO THE
SET REBAR & CAP                                                                                                                                                                          W             YW    TP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                14.4'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      POB




                                                                                                                                                                                                       D
                                                                                                                                                                                                   H




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SD
                                                                                                                                                                           W
                                                                                                                      W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NORTHEAST CORNER OF LOT 34 OF SAID GREEN ACRES;THENCE SOUTH 118.00 FEET TO THE
                                                                                                                                                                                             7
                                                                                                                                                                                         424                                         NOT SET                                                                       " SET REBAR & CAP                                                                                                                                                                              SOUTHEAST CORNER OF SAID LOT 34; THENCE WEST 16 FEET TO INTERSTATE I-15 RIGHT OF WAY
                                                                                                     IRON FENCE                                                                                                                "                           "




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2.4'      NE CORNER LOT 10,                                                                                                                                                                LINE; THENCE NORTH 11°20'08" WEST ALONG SAID RIGHT OF WAY LINE 262.011 FEET; THENCE
                                                            4477




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TITLE EXCEPTIONS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S 00°05'26" W 103.98'
            NOT SET                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         BLOCK 4, 10 ACRE PLAT "A"                                                                                                                                                             NORTH 0°09' EAST ALONG SAID RIGHT OF WAY LINE 130.73 FEET TO THE SOUTH LINE 3300 SOUTH;
                                                         42




                                                                                                                                                                                                              11.7'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           BRICK PLANTER                                                           BIG FIELD SURVEY                                                                                                                                                               THENCE NORTH 75°50' EAST 26.09 FEET; THENCE NORTH 88°08' EAST 127.00 FEET; THENCE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    W                                          4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LC 00                                                                                                                                                    SOUTH 6.0 FEET; THENCE NORTH 86°57'40" EAST 78.13 FEET; THENCE NORTH 87°15'24" EAST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      , L 478-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  THIS SURVEY IS BASED UPON THE COMMITMENT FOR TITLE INSURANCE ISSUED BY OLD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SD
                         6.5'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1 1     -                                                                                                                                                       68.069 FEET TO THE POINT OF BEGINNING.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               L# -27                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           REPUBLIC NATIONAL TITLE INSURANCE, FILE NO. 2374762MGH, EFFECTIVE DATE JULY 17, 2023.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SS 20




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GAS
            ITEM 12                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             L#
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           R                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NOTES PERTAINING TO EXCEPTIONS TO COVERAGE, SCHEDULE B-2 OF REFERENCED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      COMMITMENT:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CONCRETE PAD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LAND SURVEYING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 9138 SOUTH STATE STREET SUITE # 100
  CHAIN LINK FENCE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             33.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                             SDCB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ENGINEERING &

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SANDY, UTAH 84070 (801) 542-7192
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CURB WALL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ITEMS 1-9   NOT ADDRESSED IN THIS SURVEY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           300 WEST STREET

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           66' RIGHT OF WAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                     TOG=4245.65                                                    CURB WALL                                                                                        SET REBAR & CAP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BENCHMARK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (PUBLIC ROAD)
                  FO                                                                                                                                                                             IE 8" S = 4243.70                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ITEM 10    COVENANTS, CONDITIONS AND/OR RESTRICTIONS, EASEMENTS, ASSESSMENTS,




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        www.benchmarkcivil.com
                                          130.73'




                                                                                                                                                                                                 IE 8" N = 4243.50                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LIENS, CHARGES, TERMS AND PROVISIONS CONTAINED WITHIN THOSE CERTAIN DECLARATIONS
   (CONTROLLED ACCESS)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EX. BUILDING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NARRATIVE OF SURVEY                                                                                           AND ANY AMENDMENTS THERETO, FILED OF RECORD FOR SAID SUBDIVISION, BUT OMITTING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SS
                                                                                                                                                  CONCRETE PATH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    W
                                                              FFE = 4248.06




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.6'
                                                              EX. BUILDING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            COMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ANY COVENANTS OR RESTRICTIONS,IF ANY, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO THOSE BASED
     (PUBLIC HIGHWAY)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.5'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SET REBAR & CAP
                                       E FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          UPON RACE, COLOR, RELIGION, SEX, SEXUAL ORIENTATION, FAMILIAL STATUS, MARITAL
       INTERSTATE -15




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SCOPE
                                                                                                                                                                                                 EX. BUILDING                                                                                                        N 89°54'13" E 85.00'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       STATUS,DISABILITY, HANDICAP, NATIONAL ORIGIN, ANCESTRY, OR SOURCE OF INCOME AS SET




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GAS
                                                                                                                     WATERWAY                                                                                                                                      CONCRETE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       BENCHMARK ENGINEERING & LAND SURVEYING, LLC WAS RETAINED BY LAURIE HOPKINS TO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                FORTH IN APPLICABLE STATE OR FEDERAL LAWS, EXCEPT TO THE EXTENT THAT SAID COVENANT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W
                                                                                                                                                                                                 FFE = 4247.33
                           N 00°09'00"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PARKING BLOCK                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PERFORM AN ALTA/NSPS SURVEY OF SUBJECT PROPERTY AS SHOWN HEREON.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DNC"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OR RESTRICTION IS PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW. SAID DECLARATION AND/OR COVENANTS,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (TYPICAL)
                                                                                                                                4247




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EX. BUILDING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      64.10'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CONDITIONS AND/OR RESTRICTIONS MAY PROVIDE FOR, AMONG OTHER THINGS THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BASIS OF BEARING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    W COMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CONCRETE                                                                 FFE = 4249.00                                                     "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            FORMATION OF AN ASSOCIATION, WHICH HAS THE POWER TO ASSESS CHARGES FOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ITEM 13                                                                                                                                                       THE BASIS OF BEARINGS FOR THIS SURVEY IS SOUTH 00°05'30" WEST, AS SHOWN HEREON.
                              FO




                                                                                                               CONCRETE                                                                                                                                                    ITEM 11                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MAINTENANCE, AND/OR TRANSFER FEES.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                RECORDED: MAY 19, 1947
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       7                                                                                                                            /       /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BENCHMARK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ENTRY NO.: 1082629
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   42                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             STREET MONUMENT LOCATED AT THE INTERSECTION OF 3300 SOUTH STREET AND 300 WEST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          00°05'30"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                BOOK:      538




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CONCRETE PATH                                                                                                                                                                                                           STREET. ELEVATION = 4246.99
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PAGE:      61, OF OFFICIAL RECORDS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            COMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S 00°05'30" W 1185.40' (RECORD) 1185.36' (MEASURED)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ENCLOSED STAIRWELL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (SURVEY FINDINGS: BLANKET IN NATURE, NOT PLOTTABLE)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    424
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CURB WALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (TYPICAL)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SGAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ITEM 11    GRANT OF EASEMENT AND/OR RIGHT-OF-WAY AND THE TERMS, CONDITIONS AND




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SET REBAR & CAP
                                               FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CHAIN LINK FENCE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                LIMITATIONS CONTAINED THEREIN:
 SET REBAR & CAP                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IN FAVOR OF:    THE MOUNTAIN STATES TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   S 89°54'27" W 153.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SDCB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            COMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    YY D                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        RECORDED:       MARCH19,1971
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 HH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.4'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.7'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     RIM=4246.57                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ENTRY NO.:      2376075
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GENERAL NOTES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IE 8" NE = 4244.87                                                                                                          SET REBAR & CAP                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                BOOK:           2943




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IE 4" N = 4245.54




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W
                                                    FO




                                      1.6'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PAGE:           907, OF OFFICIAL RECORDS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 E INC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (SURVEY FINDINGS: AFFECTS THE SUBJECT PROPERTY, AS SHOWN)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              RIS 01




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BASIS OF BEARINGS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CURB WALL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SS
                         ITEM 12                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S 00°09'00" W 112.99'                                                      ERP 478-




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            COMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         T     -                                                                                                                                                  1)     SURVEYOR'S OBSERVATIONS REGARDING POSSIBLE ENCROACHMENTS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (DEED = 113.12')                                                 EN 0-27                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ITEM 12    EASEMENTS AND/OR RIGHT-OF-WAYS AS DISCLOSED BY MESNE INSTRUMENTS OF
                                                            GA




                                                                                                                                                                                                            AREA CONTAINS:                                                                                                                           H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   IS L#  2                                                                                                                                                              A - FENCE LINES VARY ALONG THE SOUTH AND WEST PROPERTY LINES.
                                                                                                               WATERWAY                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              RECORD, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THAT CERTAIN QUIT CLAIM DEED:
                                                              S




                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.880 ACRES                                                                                                                     CA RCE                                                                                                                                                              2)     ALL UNDERGROUND UTILITIES MAY NOT BE SHOWN AND BLUESTAKE MARKINGS FOUND




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EX. BUILDING                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          RECORDED: SEPTEMBER 7, 1972
                                                                                                                        7                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PA
                                                         FO




                                                                                                                     424                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AT THE SITE MAY NOT DEPICT UNDERGROUND FEATURES ACCURATELY. LACKING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W
                                                                                                                                                                                                             MORE OR LESS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ENTRY NO.: 2482520
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EXCAVATION, THE EXACT LOCATION OF UNDERGROUND FEATURES CANNOT BE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2.4'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BOOK:      3147




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ACCURATELY, COMPLETELY AND RELIABLY DEPICTED.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PAGE:      222, OF OFFICIAL RECORDS
                                                                         GA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3)     NO OBSERVED EVIDENCE OF ANY CEMETERIES AND/OR BURIAL GROUNDS CONTAINED
                                                                                                                           8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (SURVEY FINDINGS: DOES NOT AFFECT THE SUBJECT PROPERTY, NO EASEMENT MENTIONED IN
                                                                                                                     424
                                                                              S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         WITHIN PROPERTY.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DOCUMENT)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4)     THE SUBJECT PROPERTY HAS DIRECT ACCESS TO 300 WEST AND 3300 SOUTH STREETS.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SHELTER THE HOMELESS, INC
                                                              FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5)     NO GAPS, GORES OR STRIPS ALONG COMMON BOUNDARY LINES WERE FOUND.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ITEM 13    THE TERMS, CONDITIONS, RESTRICTIONS, RESERVATIONS AND LIMITATIONS OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                THAT CERTAIN AGREEMENT CREATING EASEMENT AND OPTION TO PURCHASE:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SS
                                                                                          GA




                                                                                                                                                                                             EX. BUILDING                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       RECORDED:OCTOBER 22, 1985
                                                                                            S




                                                                                                 "
                                                                                                                                                                                             FFE = 4249.23                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ENTRY NO.: 4336018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                BOOK:      5830




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
                                                                     FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W
                    CHAIN LINK FENCE                                                                                                                                 OHP          OHP                                    OHP                 OHP                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PAGE:      2274, OF OFFICIAL RECORDS
                                                                                                 OHP           G
                                                                                                           W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (SURVEY FINDINGS: AFFECTS THE SUBJECT PROPERTY, AS SHOWN)
                                                                                                                                                                                              S 89°54'40" W 161.89'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SS
                                                                    1.97'




                                                                                                                                                                                     "                                                                                         NOT SET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3.0'
                                                                                                                               3.3'




                                                                                                                                                                                              (DEED = S 89°54'45" W 162.52')                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ITEM 14    THE TERMS, CONDITIONS, RESTRICTIONS, RESERVATIONS AND LIMITATIONS OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OHP
                                                                                                               GAS




                                                                                                                            " SET REBAR & CAP                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   THAT CERTAIN ACKNOWLEDGEMENT, DISCLOSURE AND AGREEMENT:
                                                                                        W FO26




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GAS
                                                                                          01')




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                RECORDED: JULY 7, 1995




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   315 W. 3300 S.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W
                                                                                       .




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ENTRY NO.: 6116254
                                                                                        = 262




                                                                                                                        S 00°05'30" W 118.09'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                BOOK:      7183



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SS
                                                                                    8 "




                                                                                                                                            (DEED = SOUTH 118.09')




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PAGE:      0424, OF OFFICIAL RECORDS
                                                                                 '0
                                                                                            (DEED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    OHP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (SURVEY FINDINGS: AFFECTS THE SUBJECT PROPERTY, BLANKET IN NATURE, NOT PLOTTABLE)
                                                                               0


                                                                                                               GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                       NY
                                                                                                                                                                                   PA S                          LC                                          LC
                                                                        11FO°2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GAS

                                                                                                                                                                                OM     E                     D ,L                                       D ,L                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ITEM 15     NOT ADDRESSED BY THIS SURVEY
                                                                                                                                                                              C      R 5                   AN S                                       AN S
                                                                                                                                                                           AS N AC 1-00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LEGEND AND ABBREVIATIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S
                                                                                                                                                                         G    E      5                 Y BR CRE 06                                Y BR CRE 07                                                                                                                                                                                               SSMH
                                                                                                                                                                      AR     E    -4                 IL     A -0                               IL      A -0
                                                                                     N




                                                                                                                                                                  EST 5, GR 5-25                  FAM REEN -451                            F AM REEN -451                                                                                                                                                                                                   RIM=4248.96                                                                                                                                                         ITEM 16    EASEMENTS AND/OR RIGHT-OF-WAYS AS DISCLOSED BY MESNE INSTRUMENTS OF
                                                                                                                                                               Q U O T 3 L# 1                  S     G     5                            S      G      5
                                                                                                                                                                                             MA 36, 15-2                              MA 37, 15-2                                                                                                                                                                                                           IE 8" N = 4242.42                                                                                                                                                   RECORD, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THAT CERTAIN EASEMENT DEED BY COURT ORDER IN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    OHP




                                                                                                                                                                  L CE                      O                                        O
                                                                                                                                                                                          TH LOT EL#                               TH LOT EL#                                                                                                                                                                                                               IE 8" S = 4242.52                                                                                                                                                   SETTLEMENT OF LANDOWNER ACTION:
                                                                                                               GAS




                                                                                                                                                                      R                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 STREET MON. (FOUND)                             SANITARY SEWER MANHOLE & PIPE
                                                                                                                                                                   PA                            RC                                       RC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                RECORDED: SEPTEMBER 24, 2013
                                                                                                 FO




                                                                                                                                                                                              PA                                       PA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S                SS          SS                           SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PROPERTY CORNER (NOT SET)                       STORM DRAIN MANHOLE & PIPE                              ENTRY NO.: 11729918
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              D                SD             SD                        SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                BOOK:       0180
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CULINARY PIPE LINE                                      PAGE:1, OF THE OFFICIAL RECORDS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ADJACENT PL or LOT LINES                               W              W                         W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W                                                                 (SURVEY FINDINGS: AFFECTS THE SUBJECT PROPERTY, BLANKET IN NATURE, NOT PLOTTABLE)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    OHP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        WATER VALVE & WATER METER
                                                                                                               GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EXISTING RIGHT-OF-WAY LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GAS
                                                                                                      FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        FIRE HYDRANT                                            ITEMS 17-18 NOT ADDRESSED IN THIS SURVEY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CENTERLINE of ROAD                        Y D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        POWER POLE & OVERHEAD POWER                             ITEM 19    THE TERMS, CONDITIONS, RESTRICTIONS, RESERVATIONS AND LIMITATIONS OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EASEMENT LINE                                         OHP            OHP                    OHP         THAT CERTAIN RESTRICTIVE USE AGREEMENT:
                                                                          NOT SET                                     N 89°59'20" W 16.45'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    OHP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CURB & GUTTER                                   GAS LINE                                                RECORDED:APRIL6,2023
                                                                                                               GAS




                                                                                                                                (DEED = WEST 16.00')
                                                                                                                                                                                         ARCHARD AVENUE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GAS            GAS                    GAS         ENTRY NO.: 14090523
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EDGE OF EXISTING ASPHALT                        FIBER OPTIC                                             BOOK:      11411
                                                                                                                                                                                          (PUBLIC ROAD)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  /   /   /    /   /   /   /   /   /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               FO             FO                        FO      PAGE:      306, OF OFFICIAL RECORDS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        COMMUNICATION LINE                                      (SURVEY FINDINGS: AFFECTS THE SUBJECT PROPERTY, BLANKET IN NATURE, NOT PLOTTABLE)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        FENCE, CHAIN                                         COMM            COMM                  COMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PROJECT NO.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        FENCE, IRON                                      GUY WIRE                                               ITEM 20    THE TERMS, CONDITIONS, RESTRICTIONS, RESERVATIONS AND LIMITATIONS OF                                                                                        2307141
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LIGHT POLE                                             THAT CERTAIN DEED RESTRICTION:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                RECORDED: APRIL 6, 2023
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SDMH STORM DRAIN MANHOLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SSMH SANITARY SEWER MANHOLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  G      GAS METER                                              ENTRY NO.: 14090524                                                                                                                     ALTA/NSPS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           STREET MONUMENT                                                                                                                              SD   STORM DRAIN                                 CATCH BASIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                BOOK:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PAGE:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           11411
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           318, OF OFFICIAL RECORDS                                                                                                     LAND TITLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ℄300 WEST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (FOUND BRASS CAP )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        IE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CATCH BASIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             INVERT ELEVATION                            STORM DRAIN INLET BOX
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (SURVEY FINDINGS: AFFECTS THE SUBJECT PROPERTY, BLANKET IN NATURE, NOT PLOTTABLE)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SURVEY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TOG TOP OF GRATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        POB POINT OF BEGINNING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SVA.01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1 OF 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      NORTH



                                                                                                                                                                                              SHELTER THE HOMELESS, INC.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ADJUST ACCORDINGLY FOR REDUCED SIZE SHEETS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DESCRIPTION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SCALE MEASURES 1-INCH ON FULL SIZE SHEETS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               04/25/2024 REVISED PER OWNER COMMENTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          12/14/2023 REVISED PER UDOT COMMENTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             11/30/2023 REVISED PER CITY COMMENTS


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 03/06/2024 REVISED PER CITY COMMENTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        04/08/2024 REVISED PER CITY COMMENTS


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         08/29/2024 REVISED PER CITY COMMENTS
                                                                                                                                   EX. LIGHT POLE                                                                        LOCATED IN THE SOUTHEAST QUARTER AND THE SOUTHWEST QUARTER OF SECTION 25,
                                                                                                                                   (PROTECT)
                                                                                                                                   (VERIFY LOCATION PRIOR                                                                                      TOWNSHIP 1 SOUTH, RANGE 1 WEST,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GRAPHIC SCALE
                                                                                                                                   TO CONSTRUCTION)
                                                                                                                                                                                                        INFILL PARKSTRIP WITH CONCRETE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             20       0       10        20              40

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         315 W. 3300 S.
                                                                               SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                        PER SSL CITY SDTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY,SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ( IN FEET )
                                                                                                                                                                  3300 SOUTH STREET                                                                                                                                                       SSMH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1 inch = 20 ft.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W
                                                                                                                                                                                     EX. CURB AND GUTTER                                                                                                                            RIM=4245.87                                                                                                                                                EX. DRIVE APPROACH REMOVE AND 5
                                                                                                                                                             EX. SEWER LINE (SR-171) (PROTECT)                                                                                                                                 IE 8" W = 4241.36                                                                                                                                               REPLACE WITH NEW CURB AND GUTTER
                  SSMH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               DATE
                                                                               SS



                                                                                                                                                             (PROTECT)                                                                                                                                                        IE 4" SE = 4241.96
           RIM=4245.87                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EX. SIDEWALK                                                                                                                                                                                                       EX. DRIVE APPROACH                                                                                                                         SSMH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (PROTECT)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EX. SIDEWALK
     IE 12" N = 4239.80                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (PROTECT)(ACCESS DRIVE)                                                                                                             RIM=4247.36
                                                                                                        W

    IE 4" SW = 4240.70                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EX. LIGHT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SS POLE                                                         SOUTH                   6.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (PROTECT)                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CONSTRUCTION KEY NOTE REFERENCE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         No.
                                                                               S                      SS                                  SS                                          SS                SS                         SS                                                     SS                                  SS                        SS                        SS                           S                                                                                                                                                                                       IE 12" NW = 4241.29                                                                                                 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               6.5'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       6
       IE 8" E = 4240.31                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ACCESS                                                                                                         EX. CURB AND GUTTER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W
                                                                           N 75°50'00" E 26.09'                                                                                                                                                          (PROTECT)                                                                                     EX. SIGN                                                                            SS                                                                                                                                                              IE 8" S = 4241.43                                                                                                                                                               NO.                                                              DESCRIPITON                                   DETAIL
                                                                                                                                                                                  EX. WATER LINE
                                                                                                                           2.4'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           5                                                                                                         DRIVEWAY                                                                                                       (PROTECT)                               IE 8" E = 4241.61                                                                                               EX. CURB AND GUTTER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (REMOVE)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     08/29/2023
                                                                                                                                                                                  (PROTECT)                                                   EX. FIRE HYDRANT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2307141_SITE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GATE S                                                                                                             EX. LIGHT POLE                                                                                                                                      (PROTECT)                                                          1       CONCRETE PAVEMENT WITH GRANULAR BASE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     9.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              AND WATER                                                                            6                                                                                                                        S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.4'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             57.5'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     7.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (PROTECT)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  7.6'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2       ASPHALT PAVEMENT WITH GRANULAR BASE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VP/CB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              METER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          25.8'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                               7.6'
                                                                                                            W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     MCP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      S .07'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5'24" E S68                                                                                                                                                                                                W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     FAC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W
                                                                                                                                                                     N 88°08'00" E 127.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (PROTECT)                                                                                                                                                                                              N 87°1                                          W               W                                    W GAS                 W                  W                                                                                                                                                                                           3       ADA SIGN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         N 86°57'40" E 78.13'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GAS          GAS                                      GAS                           GAS GAS                          GAS        W GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  W      GAS          GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W                                            GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    WW                                                              GAS                GAS                GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W                               W                             W                         W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CHECKED BY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4       ADA RAMP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         FIELD CREW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            YW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EX. WATER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EX. LIGHT POLE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DRAWN BY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   6                                                                                                                                         EX. WATER LINE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DWG. FILE
                                                                                                                                                                                                    W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
          EX. SIGN POLE                                                                                                                                                           W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         BICYCLE PARKING                                       PEDESTRIAN GATE METER AND




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GAS
                                                                                                                                   W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    EX. SIGN                                                 (PROTECT)                                       (PROTECT)                                                                                                                                                                         5       CURB AND GUTTER PER UDOT STANDARDS #GW-2A TYPE 'B1'                                               1/CSP.02




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GAS
          (REMOVE)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 11.7'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OR STORAGE                                                        VALVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (REMOVE)                                    EX. WATER METER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                4.2'                                                                     WITH INVERTED U                                                       (PROTECT) EX. STRIPPING                                                                           4.2'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          6       KNOX BOX ENTRY ACCESS PER SSL FIRE DEPARTMENT
                                                                                                     EX. IRON FENCE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (PROTECT)
                                                                                        29.5'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               BIKE RACK                                                                 (REMOVE)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  04
                                                                                                     (PROTECT)                                                                                                                                                                                 (8 SPACES)                                                                                                                                                                                      EX. WHEEL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       , LLC 51-0                                                                                                                                                                              7       NEW SIDEWALK PER SSL STDS #231                                                                    2/CDT.01




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             10.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EX. WATER METER                              1      4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               STOPS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   #1 -25-                                                                                                                                                                                     8       ADA VAN ACCESIBLE SIGN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S 00°05'26" W 103.98'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (MIN.)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (PROTECT)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EX. CONCRETE PAD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       L                                                                                                                                                        EX. WATER MAIN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SS 15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (REMOVE)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         9.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (PROTECT)                                                                                                        6.1'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (PROTECT)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   #




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                        8.8'                                                REMOVE AND REPLACE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CONCRETE          5.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EX. BRICK PLANTER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (PROTECT)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2.2'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              C EL EX. SEWER MAIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            R        (PROTECT)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       36.4'                                                   18.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DELIVERY AREAS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            AREA TABLE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SD
                                                   6.5'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (MIN.)
                                                                         5.1'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  12.4'                                          7                        PEDESTRIAN GATE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               S.F.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EX. GAS MAIN                                                                                                                                                                       PARTICULARS                                                              %




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SAWCUT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        11.6'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EX. EXTERIOR LIGHTING                                                                                                            (FOR EMPLOYEES ONLY)                                                                                                                                                                                                   (PROTECT)
                                                                                                                5.1'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               BUILDING                                              20,759              27.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (PROTECT)                                                                                                   22.0'
                  00°09'00" E 130.73'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EX. EXTERIOR LIGHTING                                                                                                             BUS/STAGING AREA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 HARDSCAPE                                           43,165               58
                                                                                                                       EX. EXTERIOR LIGHTING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LAND SURVEYING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         9138 SOUTH STATE STREET SUITE #100
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                AND SELF CONTAINED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (PROTECT)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           18.9'




                                                                                                                       (PROTECT)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LANDSCAPE                                           10,550              14.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ENGINEERING &

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SANDY, UTAH 84070 (801) 542-7192
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                MOBILE CLINIC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            22.5'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (THERE WILL BE NO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TOTAL                                               74,474              100




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BENCHMARK
                                                                                                                                                                                      35.7'                                                                                        EX. CURB WALL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (PROTECT)                                                                                               DUMPING ONSITE FROM                                                                 EX. EXTERIOR LIGHTING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                www.benchmarkcivil.com
    FO                                                                                                                                                                             EX. ADA STALL                                                                                                                                                                                                THE CLINIC AND                                                                      (PROTECT)
                                                                                                                                                                                   (PROTECT)                                                                                                    REMOVE EX.                                                                                      SCHEDULES WILL BE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                STRIPPING                                                                                       PLANNED SO THE                                                                                                                                          EX. BUILDING                                                                                                                    EX. WATER METER                                                                                            NOTE:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 9.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EX. CURB WALL                                                                                                                                                                        (PROTECT)                                                             5' SIDEWALK BEHIND EX.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                OPERATION OF THE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             W                                                                                                UTILITY BOX, SIDEWALK                SLOPE ACROSS THE ACCESSIBLE PARKING STALLS & ACCESS ISLE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                              EX. CONCRETE PATH                                                                                                                                                                                 MOBILE CLINIC                                                                                      (PROTECT)                                                                                           EX. WATER METER                                                                                                                                                                             SHALL NOT EXCEED A 1:48 (2.00%) SLOPE, THE MAX GRADE
                N FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TO BE CONSTRUCTED BY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SS
                                                                                                                                                                                              (PROTECT)                                                                                                                                                                                         DOESN'T OVERLAP WITH                                                                                                                                                                                   (PROTECT)                                                  EX. LIGHT POLE                                                                                                                   DIFFERENCE BETWEEN THE ASPHALT SURFACE, ACCESSIBLE RAMP,




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EX. BUILDING                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       W                                                                                                                                                              SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY
                                                                                                                                           (MIN.)




                                                                                                11.1'                                                                                                                                                                                                          4.9'                                                                             THE SCHEDULED BUS)                                                                             EX. CONCRETE                                                                                                                                                       (PROTECT)                                                                                                                        AND SIDEWALK SHALL NOT EXCEED 1/4 INCH VERTICAL OR 1/2 INCH
                                                                                                                                            9.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            FFE = 4247.33
                                                               FFE = 4248.06




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PARKING BLOCK
                                                               EX. BUILDING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   WHEN BEVELED. THE ACCESSIBLE MEANS OF EGRESS INCLUDING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              11.5'                                                                                                                                                    26.0'                                                   18.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (TYPICAL)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        N 89°54'13" E 85.00'                                                                                                                EX. POWER POLE                                    EX. OVERHEAD POWER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     68.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 18.0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (MIN.)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               THE DRIVEWAY PORTION SHALL NOT EXCEED A SLOPE OF 1:20 (5.0%)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W
                                                                                                                            18.0'                                                                                                                                       EX. WHEEL                                                                                                                                                                                                              (PROTECT)                                                                              80.50'                                                                                                                (PROTECT) OHP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OHP                                    OHP         (PROTECT)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                (MIN.)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             & A CROSS SLOPE OF 1:48 (2.0%). ALL EXTERIOR DOOR WAY ACCESS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      5.0'
                    FO




                                                                                                                           (MIN.)                                                                                                                                       STOPS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (MIN.)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EX. FIRE LANE RED CURB                                                                                                                                                                                                 REQUIRE AN EXTERIOR LANDING 60 INCHES IN LENGTH WITH A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.7'
                                                                                                                                                         EX. WATERWAY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3.9'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         9.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4.50'
                                                                                                                                                                                                               (MIN.)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (REMOVE)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (PROTECT)                                                                                                                                                                                                              SLOPE NOT EXCEEDING A 1:48 (2.0%) SLOPE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                9.0'




                                                                                                                                                         (PROTECT)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    EX. BUILDING                                                                                    2.4'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                OHP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EX. UTILITY BOX




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S 00°05'30" W 64.10'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  INSTALL 50 AMP 240 VOLT GFCI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        FFE = 4249.00                                      EX. EXTERIOR LIGHTING                           19.9'                                                                                                  (PROTECT)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           35.9'                                                   EX.CONCRETE PATH                                                                                      (PROTECT)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              4.3'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S 00°05'30" W 64.10'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PROTECTED OUTLET FOR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EX. WHEEL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W
EX. CHAIN LINK FENCE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (PROTECT)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                MOBILE CLINIC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GAS
                                                                                                                           EX. CONCRETE PATH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 STOPS                                                                                                                EX. CURB AND GUTTER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               NOTE:
                   FO




(PROTECT)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (DESIGNED BY OTHERS)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SS
                                                                                                                           (PROTECT)                                                                                                                                                                                                                      30.7'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (REMOVE)                                                                                                             (PROTECT)                                                    SAWCUT WIDTH, LOCATIONS AND TIE-IN ELEVATIONS TO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           8.0                                                                                                                                                                    /       /   /                          /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4.1'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 R2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EXISTING GRADE ARE APPROXIMATE. CONTRACTOR TO FIELD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                OHP
                                                                                                                                                                                 EX. ADA STALL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             4.8'                                                                                VERIFY LOCATION, EXTENT OF SAWCUTTING, AND TIE-IN
                                        9.7'                                                                                                                                     (PROTECT)                                                                            EX. CONCRETE PATH                                                         18.0'                                                  EX. WHEEL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SLOPES TO EXISTING GRADE PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION. IT IS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LOT 1                                          (PROTECT)                                                        (MIN.)                                                  STOPS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               THE INTENT ON THESE PLANS THAT ALL PAVEMENT SHALL TIE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        20.7' GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         81,559 SQ FT                                                                                                                                                                  (REMOVE)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      REMOVE EX.                                                                                                                                                                                               INTO EXISTING GRADE PER SLOPES LISTED ON CGN.01 NOTE 70.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (MIN.)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EX. ADA STALL                                                                                                                               EX. CURB WALL                                                                                                                                                                                             EX. DRIVE APPROACH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        9.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                      33.7'                              1.872 ACRES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SEE NOTES 66, 70, 82, & 83 ON CGN.01 FOR FURTHER DETAIL.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     39.1'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               REMOVE EX.                                                                                              (PROTECT)                                                      STRIPPING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       26.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (REMOVE)(USE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (PROTECT)(ACCESS DRIVE)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                OHP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        26.2'
                              FO




                                                       EX. EXTERIOR LIGHTING                                                                                                                                   315 WEST 3300 SOUTH                                                                           2                                                             AS STANDARD                         STRIPPING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      35.0'
                                                                                                                             17.7'                                   ADD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            6                      ACCESS
                                                                   (PROTECT)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PARKING STALL)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SD




                                                                                                                                                                     0.3'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DRIVEWAY                       4.50'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    FIRE LANE ACCESS                                                                                                                                                                              37.5'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W
                                                                                                                   18.8'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GATE                                                                                                                                                                                                NOTE:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GAS
                                                                                                                                                                     EX. ADA STALL                                                                                                                                                                        SAWCUT                                                                                                                                                           148.50'                                                              53.1'                                                                                                                                                                                          ALL WORK WITHIN PUBLIC ROADS TO BE DONE IN STRICT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3.7'
                                                                                                                                                                     (REMOVE)(USE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ACCORDANCE WITH SALT LAKE CITY STANDARDS AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S 89°54'27" W 153.00'
                                                                                                                                   5.3'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EX. FIRE HYDRANT                                               W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      33.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                OHP
                                        FO




                                                                                                                                                                     AS STANDARD                                                         EX. WHEEL                                                                                                                                                         H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EX. LIGHT POLE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SPECIFICATIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Y YD
                                                                                5.2'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (PROTECT)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SD




                                                                                                                                                                     PARKING STALL)                                                      STOPS                           2.3'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (PROTECT)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SHELTER THE HOMELESS, INC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (REMOVE)                                                                                                        53.8'                                                                                                            EX. FIRE LANE RED CURB                                                                                                              EX. SIGN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EX. CHAIN LINK FENCE                                                                                                                                            AREA HEREBY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (PROTECT)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          OWNER/DEVELOPER:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GAS
         (4) 6" BOLLARDS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EX. LIGHT POLE                                          EX. STRIPPING                                                                                                                                                                           (REMOVE)                                                (REMOVE)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EX. SIDEWALK                                                                                                  DEDICATED TO SOUTH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (PROTECT)                                               (REMOVE)                                                                     EX. WATER METER                                                                                                                                              (PROTECT)                                                                                                     SALT LAKE CITY 289 SQ FT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EX. FIRE LANE RED CURB                                                                                                                                                                                     AND VALVE                                                                                                    EX. ENCLOSED STAIRWELL                                                                                                                                                                                                               SHELTER THE HOMELESS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OHP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EX. CURB WALL
                                             FO




                                                                                                                                  EX. WATERWAY                                                                                  (PROTECT)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OR 0.007 ACRES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (PROTECT)                                                                                                                  (TYPICAL)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LAURIE HOPKINS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   S 00°09'00" W 112.99'




                                                                                                                                  (PROTECT)                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (PROTECT)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (PROTECT)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      C.
                                                   GA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SAWCUT                                                                                                                                                                                                           IN                                                                                                                                                                                                        242 PARAMOUNT AVENUE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GAS
                                                       S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               IS -018




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SS
     EX. LIGHT POLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             R                                                                                                                                                                                                               SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84115
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           RP 451
     (RELOCATE)
                                                  FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OHP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S 00°05'30" W 118.09'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      28                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 E                                                                                                                                                                                                                   801-359-0698
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       NT -25-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   14.0'




                                                                                                                       PET WASTE STAND                                                                                                                                                                   .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          24.6'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 24.6'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2               2'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EX. OVERHEAD POWER                                                                              5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              10.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     E
                                                              GA




                                                                                                                       (PROTECT)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              25.8'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         15                                                                                                                                                                                                                  lhopkins@homelessutah.org
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (PROTECT)
                                                                                             24.2'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               8.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               9.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   H                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 -45




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           315 W. 3300 S.
                                                                               10.0'
                                                               S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GAS
                                                                                                                              ADA ANIMAL RELIEF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -25
    EX. CONCRETE WASTE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            9.0'                                                                         EX. BUILDING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TF EL     #                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            15




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                #
  CONTAINER ENCLOSURE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (MIN.)                                                                                                                                                                    A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          C RC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               L
                                                       FO




                                                                                                                                           ADA ACCESS TO BE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (MIN.)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GAS
    WITH CHAIN LINK GATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      18.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               18.0'




  (GATE WILL BE CHANGED                                                                                                                    PROVIDED (SEE                                                    9.0'                                                                                                               8
                                                                     /



                                                                           GA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      80.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MATCH LINE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       300 WEST STREET
                                                                                                                                           ARCHITECT PLANS)                                                (MIN.)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       116.89
      FOR A SOLID GATE ).




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (PUBLIC STREET)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (MIN.)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1
                                                                               S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       18.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        FO
       (7 FT HEIGHT, 11 FT                                                                                   7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 5.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5.6'




      WIDTH, 10 FT DEPTH)
                                                                                                            5.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              6.0'
                                                            73.39'




                                                                                                     5.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                5.0'
                (PROTECT)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           /
                                                            FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EX. EXTERIOR LIGHTING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      6.0'                                                      (PROTECT)
                                                                                        GA




                                                                                                                                  4                                                EX. EXTERIOR LIGHTING                                                                                                                                                  7
                                                            .97'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   115.59'
                                                                                            S




                                                                                                                                                                                   (PROTECT)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W
 EX. CHAIN LINK FENCE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GAS
                                                                    FO 261




                                                                                                                    11.4'
                                                                                            10.0'




 (PROTECT)
                                                                                                                                                 5.5'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SS
                                                                                                                                                                                       ROCKY MOUNTAIN
           EX. TREE                                                             13.1'                                                                                                                                                                 EX. BUILDING                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    AREA HEREBY
                                                                                                                                                                                       POWER EASEMENT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GAS
                                                             0'08" W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      FFE = 4249.23
                                                                                                                   5.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DEDICATED TO SOUTH
                                                                                                     GA




           (TO BE REMOVED)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.3'
                                                                                                                                                                                                        3.1'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2.9'




                                                            0.5'                    7                                                               EX. LIGHT POLE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SALT LAKE CITY 42 SQ FT
                                                                                                       S




                                                                                                     10.0'                                                                                                                                                                               EX. LIGHT POLE
                                                                                                                                                    (PROTECT)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EX. LIGHT POLE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OR 0.001 ACRES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (PROTECT)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OHP                              OHP                                  OHP                             OHP                          OHP                       OHP                                                   (PROTECT)
                                                                                                                                      G
                                                                    N 1FO1°2




                                                                                                                                                                                                 OHP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SS
                                                                                                      OHP                                                                    OHP
                                                                                                                       W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        S 89°54'40" W 161.89'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2.5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OHP




                                                                                                                                                                                              PROVIDE HANDRAILS/GUARDRAILS
                                                                                                                                   GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                              ALONG ADA RAMP PER ARCHITECT PLANS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      FO
                                                                                       EX. LIGHT POLE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GAS
                                                                                       (PROTECT)                                                                    EX. WATER METER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SS
                                                                                                                                                                    (PROTECT)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               N 89°59'20" W 16.45'
                                                                               FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LC                                                                                 LC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OHP




            DOMINION ENERGY EASEMENT                                                                                                                                                                  AN
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               D ,L                                                                                 D,L                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PROJECT NO.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2307141
                                                                                                                                   GAS



                                                                                                                                                         S 00°05'30" W 118.09'




                                                                                                                                                                                                  M P    S                                                                   AN S                                                                                 AN S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           BR CRE 06                                                                            BR CRE 07




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W
                                                                                                                                                                                                CO CRE 05
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                              S   A                                                                   IL Y    A -0                                                                         IL Y    A -0
                                                                                                                                                                                             A N        -0                                                          AM REEN -451                                                                         AM REEN -451
                                                                                                                                                                                          R G REE -451

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  F                                                                                    F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SITE
                                                                                                                                                                                        A                                                                      S             5                                                                      S             5
                                                                                       FO




                                                                                                                                                                                      T           5                                                                   G                                                                                    G
                                                                                                                                                                                   ES 5, G 5-2                                                              OMA 36, 15-2                                                                         OMA 37, 15-2
                                                                                                                                                                                 QU OT 3 L# 1                                                             TH LOT EL#                                                                           TH LOT EL#
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       & UTILITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OHP




                                                                                                                                                                                   L CE                                                                          RC                                                                                   RC
                                                                                                                                                                                       R
                                                                                                                                   GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                    PA                                                                        PA                                                                                   PA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GAS




       MATCH LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S
                                                                                                   '
                                                                                            116.89




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SSMH
                                                                                             FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CSP.01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      RIM=4248.96
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OHP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      IE 8" N = 4242.42

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1 OF 7
                                                                                                                                   GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      IE 8" S = 4242.52
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GAS
                                                                                                                                               115.59'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          NORTH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ADJUST ACCORDINGLY FOR REDUCED SIZE SHEETS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DESCRIPTION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SCALE MEASURES 1-INCH ON FULL SIZE SHEETS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                04/25/2024 REVISED PER OWNER COMMENTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           12/14/2023 REVISED PER UDOT COMMENTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              11/30/2023 REVISED PER CITY COMMENTS


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  03/06/2024 REVISED PER CITY COMMENTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         04/08/2024 REVISED PER CITY COMMENTS


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          08/29/2024 REVISED PER CITY COMMENTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GRAPHIC SCALE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        30            0       15        30       60




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ( IN FEET )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1 inch = 30 ft.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DATE
                                                           EX. RAISED MEDIAN                                                                                                                                                                           EX. DRIVE APPROACH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (NOT IN USE, BLOCKED BY
                                                                                                                                                                        NEW TYPE B1 CURB AND




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          No.
                                                                                                                            EX. UDOT




                                                                                                                                                                                                               EX. UDOT R/W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PHYSICAL BARRIER)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6
                                                                                                                                                                        GUTTER PER UDOT STDS




                                                                                                                              164.1'
                                                                                                                               R/W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                STREET MONUMENT
                                                                                                                                                                        #GW-2A (SEE DETAIL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                   150.9'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      08/29/2023
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3300 SOUTH & 300 WEST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2307141_SITE
                                                                                                                                                                        1/CSP.02)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (FOUND BRASS CAP)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EX. STRIPPING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VP/CB


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MCP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      FAC
                                                                                                                                                                                     EX. SIDEWALK                                                                                                                                       NOTE:




                                                                                                           HALF R/W
                                                                                                           EX. UDOT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CHECKED BY

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          FIELD CREW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        NO STRUCTURES TALLER THAN 3' ALLOWED TO BE BUILT IN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DRAWN BY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DWG. FILE
                                                                                                             82.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SIGHT TRIANGLES.




                                                                                                                                                                                                    HALF R/W
                                                                                                                                                                                                    EX. UDOT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                      75.5'
                                                                                3300 SOUTH STREET
                                                335' UDOT SITE
                                                TRIANGLE                              (SR-171)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                          39.0'
                                                                                                                                 40.1'
                                                                                                                                                                                    43.8'
                                                                                                                                                                                                           54.1'                               39.1'                   34.6'




                                                                                                                                                                                        19.8'
98.4'                                   42.7'                                                                                                 25.4'          13.5'                                                                                                                                  46.3'
                                                                                      184.2'


                                                                                                                                                                            25.6'                                                                                                                                                        UDOT NOTES:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1. UDOT RESERVES THE RIGHT, AT ITS OPTION, TO INSTALL A RAISED MEDIAN ISLAND OR RESTRICT THE ACCESS TO A
                                                                                                         EX. DRIVE APPROACH                                                                                                               EX. CURB AND
                                                    EX. CURB AND                                         (REMOVE)                                                                                                                                                                                                                            RIGHT-IN OR RIGHT-OUT AT ANY TIME.
                                                                           EX. SIDEWALK                                                                                                                                                   GUTTER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         04
                                                    GUTTER                                                                                                                            EX. DRIVE APPROACH                                                      , LLC 51-0                                                                 2. WORK ON THE UDOT RIGHT-OF-WAY IS SEASONALLY RESTRICTED FROM OCTOBER 15 TO APRIL 15.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           11 -4                                                                         3. ROW WORK: WORK IS NOT ALLOWED ON THE RIGHT-OF-WAY DURING THE AM/PM PEAK TRAFFIC HOURS (6:00 – 9:00 AM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SL# 5-25
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S      1                                                                                AND 3:30 - 6:00 PM). ADDITIONAL WORK RESTRICTIONS OR MODIFICATIONS MAY BE IMPOSED AT THE TIME OF THE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LAND SURVEYING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          9138 SOUTH STATE STREET SUITE #100
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ENGINEERING &

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SANDY, UTAH 84070 (801) 542-7192
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   R C                                                                                       ENCROACHMENT PERMIT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4. REPLACE ALL PAVEMENT MARKINGS IN KIND (TAPE WITH TAPE AND PAINT WITH PAINT). INSTALL ALL PAINT LINES WITH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              BENCHMARK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PERMANENT PAINT APPLICATION PER UDOT SPECIFICATION 02765. PAINT MUST HAVE AT LEAST 6 MONTHS LIFE AS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 www.benchmarkcivil.com
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DETERMINED BY UDOT’S PERMITS OFFICER.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         5. ALL NEW PAVEMENT WORDS, ARROWS AND SYMBOLS MARKING WITHIN THE RIGHT-OF-WAY SHALL BE PRE-FORMED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             THERMO PLASTIC. ALL LETTERS, ARROWS, AND SYMBOLS SHALL CONFORM WITH THE “STANDARD ALPHABET FOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             HIGHWAY SIGNS AND PAVEMENT MARKINGS” ADOPTED BY THE FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION.
                  EX. CHAIN LINK FENCE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   6. ALL SIGNS INSTALLED ON THE UDOT RIGHT-OF-WAY MUST BE HIGH INTENSITY GRADE (TYPE XI SHEETING) WITH A B3 SLIP
                  (PROTECT)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BASE. INSTALL ALL SIGNS PER UDOT SN SERIES STANDARD DRAWINGS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         7. BEFORE COMMENCING WORK ON THE STATE HIGHWAY, THE GENERAL CONTRACTOR IS REQUIRED TO OBTAIN AN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ENCROACHMENT PERMIT FROM THE APPLICABLE REGION’S PERMITS OFFICE BEFORE WORKING WITHIN THE STATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             RIGHT-OF-WAY.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         8. NO ROAD CUTS ALLOWED ON THIS JOB.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         9. FOR ALL UTILITY TAPS (ROAD CUTS), USE FLOWABLE FILL PER UDOT’S CURRENT MIX DESIGN (50-150 PSI) UDOT SPEC.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             03575.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         10. ALL UTILITIES WITHIN THE PAVED SURFACE MUST BE BORED.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /    /                                                                11. FOR EXCAVATIONS OUTSIDE OF THE ROADWAY, BACK FILL WITH UDOT APPROVED GRANULAR BORROW AND ROAD BASE.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             COMPACTION PER UDOT SPEC. 2056 AND 2721.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         12. OWNER, DEVELOPER, AND/OR THE CONTRACTOR IS REQUIRED TO HIRE AN INDEPENDENT COMPANY FOR ALL TESTING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             WITHIN THE UDOT RIGHT-OF-WAY.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         13. OWNER, DEVELOPER, AND THE CONTRACTOR ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR ANY DAMAGE TO THE UDOT RIGHT-OF-WAY THAT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MAY BE DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY CAUSED BY THE DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITY.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         14. TRAFFIC SIGNAL INSTALLATION OR MODIFICATION REQUIRES A SEPARATE WARRANTY BOND ONCE THE WORK HAS BEEN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             COMPLETED AND ACCEPTED. THE PERMITTEE IS RESPONSIBLE FOR HIRING AN INDEPENDENT INSPECTION COMPANY TO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EX. STRIPPING                    PERFORM INSPECTION SERVICES FOR ALL SIGNAL WORK COMPLETED. FOR A LIST OF THE UDOT APPROVED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CONTRACTORS AND CONSULTANTS CONTACT THE APPROPRIATE REGIONS TRAFFIC SIGNALS ENGINEER.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         15. PARTIAL CONCRETE PANEL REPLACEMENT IS NOT ALLOWED. WHEN PANELS ARE REMOVED, THE ENTIRE PANEL IS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             REQUIRED TO BE REPLACED PER UDOT STANDARDS, SPECIFICATIONS, AND STANDARD DRAWINGS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        E INC                                                                            16. DOUBLE SAW CUT THE CONCRETE TO PREVENT THE SPALLING OF OTHER CONCRETE PANELS AND TO AVOID OVER CUTS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     RIS 1-01                                                                                OVER CUTS AND SPALLS WILL REQUIRE FULL PANEL REPLACEMENT.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SHELTER THE HOMELESS, INC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ER 45                                                                                    17. ALL ABOVE GROUND FEATURES INCLUDING UTILITIES (POLES, FIRE HYDRANTS, BOXES, ETC.) MUST BE RELOCATED OUT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            E NT -25-                                                                                        OF THE AASHTO CLEAR ZONE OR A MINIMUM OF 18" BEHIND CURB.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      F ISH L# 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CA RCE
              EX. CHAIN LINK FENCE                                                                                                                                                                                                  PA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  300 WEST STREET
              (PROTECT)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (PUBLIC STREET)
                  (CONTROLLED ACCESS)
                    (PUBLIC HIGHWAY)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        NOTE:
                      INTERSTATE -15




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CONTRACTOR TO ENSURE ALL APPLICABLE UDOT PERMITS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            315 W. 3300 S.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ARE SUBMITTED AND UDOT APPROVAL IS OBTAINED PRIOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TO ANY WORK IN UDOT ROW.
                                                                       G




                                                                                                                                   LC                              LC
                                                                                                  AN
                                                                                                     Y                          ,L                              ,L
                                                                                                MP ES                      AND S                           AND S
                                                                                             CO   R 5                    BR CRE 06                       BR CRE 07
                                                                                          AS N AC -00                 LY    A                         LY    A
                                                                                                                   MI EEN 51-0                     MI EEN 51-0
                                                                                     A R G REE -451           S F A   R    5 -4               S F A   R    5 -4
                                                                                    T          5             A     , G -2                    A     , G -2
                                                                                 ES 5, G 5-2               OM T 36 # 15                    OM T 37 # 15
                                                                               QU OT 3 L# 1               H
                                                                                                         T LO EL                          H
                                                                                                                                         T LO EL
                                                                                 L CE                          RC                              RC
                                                                                     R                       PA                              PA
                                                                                  PA




  EX. STRIPPING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PROJECT NO.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2307141

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            UDOT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GW-2A                                                                                                                                        SITE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SCALE:NTS                                                                                                                                          PLAN

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CSP.02
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2 OF 7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            NORTH
                      335' RIGHT TURN UDOT SIGHT TRIANGLE                                                                            3300 SOUTH STREET                                                                                                                                                                           60'X20' CLEAR VIEW TRIANGLE
                                                       60'X20' CLEAR VIEW TRIANGLE                                                         (SR-171)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ADJUST ACCORDINGLY FOR REDUCED SIZE SHEETS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DESCRIPTION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SCALE MEASURES 1-INCH ON FULL SIZE SHEETS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                04/25/2024 REVISED PER OWNER COMMENTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           12/14/2023 REVISED PER UDOT COMMENTS
                                                                                                                                  EX. LIGHT POLE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              11/30/2023 REVISED PER CITY COMMENTS


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  03/06/2024 REVISED PER CITY COMMENTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         04/08/2024 REVISED PER CITY COMMENTS


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          08/29/2024 REVISED PER CITY COMMENTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                   8' WROUGHT IRON                                                                  WROUGHT IRON FENCE WITH
                                                                                                                                  (PROTECT)                                                                                     2                                                   ELECTRONIC SLIDING GATE 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                   FENCE WITH 2
                                                                                                                                  (VERIFY LOCATION PRIOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                   PEDESTRIAN GATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GRAPHIC SCALE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4.0'
                                                                                                                                  TO CONSTRUCTION)                                                                                                                               4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    57.5'                       29.4'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            25.8'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         20            0       10        20         40




                                                                                                                           3.0'
                                                                                                                                       28.0'                           3                                    25.5'
                                                                                                          3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4




                                                                                                                                                                                          6.2'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     20.5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            26.1'




                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ( IN FEET )




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    20.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1 inch = 20 ft.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4.3'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1




                                                                                                                                                                                                            6.1'
                                                                                                                                                                                                        1




                                                                        R2
                                                                                                          EX. IRON FENCE




                                                                                              29.5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           04




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DATE
                                                                           5. 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        44.6'
                                                                                                          (PROTECT)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  L L   - 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1, -451
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2




                                                                              '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1
                                                                    3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     L# 5-25




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          No.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SS      1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          26.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           L #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                24.4'                                                                                                                    E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      RC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       08/29/2023
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PA                                                                                                CONSTRUCTION KEY NOTE REFERENCE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VP/CB
                                                        6.5'                                      EX. SIGN POLE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2307141_STIE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MCP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             NO.                               DESCRIPITON                  DETAIL        LINETYPE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       FAC
                                                                                                  (PROTECT)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1    8' NON-PERMEABLE FENCE*/**




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CHECKED BY

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          FIELD CREW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DRAWN BY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DWG. FILE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2    8' WROUGHT IRON FENCE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3    8' CONCRETE FENCE **                                  1/CDT.01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4    KNOX BOX ENTRY ACCESS PER SSL FIRE DEPARTMENT

                           FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             *       NON-PERMEABLE FENCE WILL BE MADE WITH POLYETHYLENE PLASTIC AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     REINFORCED WITH GALVANIZED STEEL, WHICH WILL WITHSTAND SIGNIFICANT IMPACT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EX. BUILDING                                                                                            OR WIND-LOAD AND WILL NOT NEED PAINTING OR STAINING, AND WILL NOT WARP, FADE,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OR CRACK. NON-PERMEABLE FENCE IS RESISTANT TO GRAFFITI.
                                       FO




                                                                                                                                                                                   EX. BUILDING                                                                                                                                                                                                                              **      AN ANTI-GRAFFITI COATING WILL BE APPLIED TO BOTH THE CONCRETE AND SIMTEK
                                                                                                                                                                                   FFE = 4247.33                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (NON-PERMEABLE) FENCING. ADDITIONALLY, THE OPERATOR WILL REMOVE THE
                                                                        FFE = 4248.06
                                                                        EX. BUILDING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GRAFFITI EITHER WITH POWER WASHING OR PAINTING IF NEEDED.
                                       FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LAND SURVEYING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          9138 SOUTH STATE STREET SUITE #100
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ENGINEERING &

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SANDY, UTAH 84070 (801) 542-7192
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EX. BUILDING                                                                    19.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               FFE = 4249.00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              BENCHMARK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    8.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 www.benchmarkcivil.com
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               8.0'
                      EX. CHAIN LINK FENCE
                                       FO




                      (PROTECT)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                /          /      /    1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            WROUGHT IRON FENCE WITH                                  4                         57.6'                                                                      60'X20' CLEAR VIEW TRIANGLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ELECTRONIC SWINGING GATE 2                                                                                                      EX. FENCE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       38.9'
                                        FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (REMOVE)
                                             FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EX. CHAIN LINK FENCE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (REMOVE)
                                                  FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I NC
                                                            27.9'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I S E 18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PR 51-0
                                                       FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TE 5-4
                                   1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          E 5-2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      IS L# 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EX. BUILDING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   T F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CA RCE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SHELTER THE HOMELESS, INC
                                                            FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PA
                                                                              /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           300 WEST STREET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (PUBLIC STREET)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /
                                                                 FO




                       EX. CHAIN LINK FENCE
(CONTROLLED ACCESS)




                                                                               50.6'




                       (PROTECT)
  (PUBLIC HIGHWAY)
    INTERSTATE -15




                                                                                                                                                                   EX. BUILDING
                                                                        FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            315 W. 3300 S.
                                                                                                                                                                   FFE = 4249.23
                                              1                                               21.7'
                                                                                  FO




                                                                                                      2
                                                                                        FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                  LC                                          LC
                                                                                                                                                       AN
                                                                                                                                                          Y
                                                                                                                                                                                             D ,L                                        D ,L
                                                                                                                                                    M P   S                                AN S                                        AN S
                                                                                                                                                  CO CRE 05                            Y BR CRE 06                                 Y BR CRE 07
                                                                                                                                                S
                                                                                                                                               A N  A    -0                         IL      A -0                                IL      A -0
                          EX. 6' CHAIN LINK FENCE                                                                                           R G REE -451                        F AM REEN -451                               FAM EEN -451
                                                                                                                                          A                                  S             5                              S     GR     5
                                                                                             FO




                                                                                                                                         T          5                               G
                          (PROTECT)                                                                                                   ES 5, G 5-2                        O MA 36, 15-2                                O MA 37, 15-2
                                                                                                                                    QU OT 3 L# 1                       TH LOT EL#                                   TH LOT EL#
                                                                                                                                      L CE                                     RC                                           RC
                                                                                                                                          R                                 PA                                           PA
                                                                                                                                       PA
                                                                                                  FO
                                                                                                       FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PROJECT NO.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2307141
                                                                                                                                                 NEW 8' WROUGHT IRON FENCE
                                                                                                                                                 (TO BE CONSTRUCTED BY DOMINION
                                                                                                                                                 ENERGY)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         FENCING
                                  EX. 6' CHAIN LINK FENCE
                                                                                                              FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PLAN
                                  (PROTECT)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CFP.01
                                                                                                                   FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3 OF 7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NORTH
                                                                                                                                                    3300 SOUTH STREET
                                                                                                                                                          (SR-171)                                                              BICYCLE PARKING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    OR STORAGE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ADJUST ACCORDINGLY FOR REDUCED SIZE SHEETS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                WITH INVERTED U




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DESCRIPTION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SCALE MEASURES 1-INCH ON FULL SIZE SHEETS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BIKE RACK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         04/25/2024 REVISED PER OWNER COMMENTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    12/14/2023 REVISED PER UDOT COMMENTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SOUTH (8 SPACES)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            6.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       11/30/2023 REVISED PER CITY COMMENTS


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           03/06/2024 REVISED PER CITY COMMENTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  04/08/2024 REVISED PER CITY COMMENTS


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   08/29/2024 REVISED PER CITY COMMENTS
                                                                N 75°50'00" E 26.09'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GRAPHIC SCALE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      20      0       10        20            40


                                                                                                                                       N 88°08'00" E 127.00'                                                                                                                                                      N 87°15'24" E 68.07'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               N 86°57'40" E 78.13'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ( IN FEET )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        POLICE PARKING STALL 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1 inch = 20 ft.
                                                                                                            2 DELIVERY AREA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              L LC 1-00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         11 5-45




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       10.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S 00°05'26" W 103.98'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     L #     -2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   No.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               6.0'                                                                                                               SS 15




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 6
                                                                                                                                                                                     POLICE PARKING STALL 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    EL                                                                                                           CONSTRUCTION KEY NOTE REFERENCE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               08/29/2023
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2307141_SITE
                                                                                                   1                                                                                                               2 DELIVERY AREA                                                                                                                                                              R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ADA ROUTE TO THE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     DESCRIPITON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       64                                                                                                                                                                          NO.                                                                               DETAIL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LOBBY AND




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VP/CB


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               MCP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PEDESTRIAN GATE                                                                                                                                                                                                                            POLICE PARKING STALL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               FAC
                                                                                                   2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       63                                                                                                                                                                          2     LOADING/UNLOADING AREA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CHECKED BY

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   FIELD CREW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DRAWN BY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DWG. FILE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                           21                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3     BUS/STAGING AREA
       00°09'00" E 130.73'




                                                                                                        3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  62
                                                                                                                                                                           22
                                                                                                        4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  61
                                                                                                                                                                           23
FO
                                                                                                       5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EX. BUILDING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       60
                                                                                                       6                                                                   24
     N FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       59                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PARKING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                                                           25
                                                                                                                                                                                                             EX. BUILDING                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PARKING COUNT
                                                                                                        7                                                                                                    FFE = 4247.33
                                                    FFE = 4248.06




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PARKING        PROVIDED
                                                    EX. BUILDING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PARTICULARS                 PROVIDED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       58                                                             N 89°54'13" E 85.00'
                                                                                                                                                                           26                                                                                                                                                                                                                80.50'                                                                                                                            STANDARD        ADA          RESIDENT           22
                                                                                                        8                                                                                                                                                         BUS/STAGING AREA AND
         FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MOBILE CLINIC 3                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PARKING STALLS          60              4         STAFF              25




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LAND SURVEYING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   9138 SOUTH STATE STREET SUITE #100
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (SCHEDULES WILL BE                                   57                                                                                          4.50'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ENGINEERING &

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SANDY, UTAH 84070 (801) 542-7192
                                                                                                                                                                           27                                                                                                                                                                    EX. BUILDING                                                                                                                                                 TOTAL                       64                POLICE             2
                                                                                                        9                                                                                                                                                         PLANNED SO THE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          S 00°05'30" W 64.10'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 FFE = 4249.00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       BENCHMARK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  OPERATION OF THE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          GENERAL            15




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               S 00°05'30" W 64.10'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          www.benchmarkcivil.com
                                                                                                                                                                           28                                                                                     MOBILE CLINIC DON'T                                  56                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      64
                                                                                                       10                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TOTAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  OVERLAP WITH THE
        FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SCHEDULED BUS).
                                                                                                                                                                           29                                                                 55                                                                                                                                                               /    /      /                          /



                                                                                                       11

                                                                                                                                                                           30        LOT 1                                                    54
                                                                                                        12
                                                                                                                                                                                81,559 SQ FT
                                                                                                                                                                                1.872 ACRES                                                   53
                   FO




                                                                                                        13                                                            315 WEST 3300 SOUTH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              STALLS NOTE:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              52                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PARKING STALLS SIZE APPROXIMATELY 18' X 9'.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4.50'
                                                                                                           14                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                148.50'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S 89°54'27" W 153.00'
                             FO




                                                                                                        15

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ADA ROUTE TO THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         KEY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LOBBY AND                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ACCESSIBLE ROUTE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PEDESTRIAN GATE
                                  FO




                                                                                                                16




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          S 00°09'00" W 112.99'
                                                                                                       17
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       NC
                                                                                          18
                                                                               19
                                                                    20                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    E 18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 IS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PR 51-0
                                       FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         N TE 5-4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      H E 5-2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EX. BUILDING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  F IS L# 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CA RCE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SHELTER THE HOMELESS, INC
                                            FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     47            48    49
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PA
                                                          /




                                                                                                                                                   36   37
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         46




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 300 WEST STREET
                                                                                                                                                                                                     43       44    45                                            50              51




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (PUBLIC STREET)
                                                                    31         32             33        34       35                                            38     39        40     41      42
                                                 73.39'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /
                                                 FO
                                                 .97'    FO 261




                                                                                                                                                                                            EX. BUILDING                                      ADA VAN ACCESIBLE
                                                  0'08" W




                                                                                                                                                                                            FFE = 4249.23




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     315 W. 3300 S.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (SEE CSP.01)
                                                         N 1FO1°2




                                                                                                                                                                                                            S 89°54'40" W 161.89'

                                                                                                       ADA ROUTE TO PET AREA
                                                                    FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LC                                          LC
                                                                                                                                                                       AN
                                                                                                                                                                          Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   D ,L                                        D ,L
                                                                                                                           S 00°05'30" W 118.09'




                                                                                                                                                                   M P    S                                      AN S                                        AN S
                                                                                                                                                                 CO CRE 05                                   Y BR CRE 06                                 Y BR CRE 07
                                                                                                                                                              AS   A     -0                                IL     A -0                                IL      A -0
                                                                                                                                                           R G REEN -451                                FAM REEN -451                              FAM REEN -451
                                                                                                                                                         A                                            S          5                              S            5
                                                                         FO




                                                                                                                                                        T          5                                       G                                          G
                                                                                                                                                     ES 5, G 5-2                                  O MA 36, 15-2                             O MA 37, 15-2
                                                                                                                                                   QU OT 3 L# 1                                 TH LOT EL#                                TH LOT EL#
                                                                                                                                                     L CE                                              RC                                         RC
                                                                                                                                                         R                                           PA                                        PA
                                                                                                                                                      PA
                                                                                     '
                                                                              116.89
                                                                               FO




                                                                                                                 115.59'
                                                                                  FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PROJECT NO.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2307141

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PARKING
                                                                                         FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PLAN

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CPP.01
                                                                                              FO




                                                                                    N 89°59'20" W 16.45'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4 OF 7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NORTH
                                                                                                                                   3300 SOUTH STREET
                                                                                                                                         (SR-171)                                                                                                                                                                                              SDIB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ADJUST ACCORDINGLY FOR REDUCED SIZE SHEETS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TOG=4245.52




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SCALE MEASURES 1-INCH ON FULL SIZE SHEETS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              04/25/2024 REVISED PER OWNER COMMENTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         12/14/2023 REVISED PER UDOT COMMENTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            11/30/2023 REVISED PER CITY COMMENTS


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                03/06/2024 REVISED PER CITY COMMENTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       04/08/2024 REVISED PER CITY COMMENTS


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        08/29/2024 REVISED PER CITY COMMENTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SOUTH 6.00'
                                              N 75°50'00" E 26.09'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4246
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GRAPHIC SCALE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                20              0       10        20    40



                                                                                                                      N 88°08'00" E 127.00'                                                                                                                                                                                            N 87°15'24" E 68.07'          CB
                                                                                                                                                                                                  TP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           N 86°57'40" E 78.13'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ( IN FEET )




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1 inch = 20 ft.
                                                                                                                                                                            7
                                                                                                                                                                         424




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             04
                           4477




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LLC 51-0
                         42




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       11 5-4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    47.24




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        No.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    S 00°05'26" W 103.98'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  47.33
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   L #     -2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SS 15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TOC                                          MATCH EX.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      47.33                         47.24
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   47.27                                                                        46.74±
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    L#




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TOC                            TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    08/29/2023
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GRADING AND DRAINAGE KEY NOTE REFERENCE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2307141_SITE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  E
                                                                                                                                                              SEE DETAIL A/CGD.01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               RC
                                                                                                                                                                                                        47.33                                                                                MATCH EX.
                                                                                                                                                                                                        TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PA                                                                                                                     NO.                             DESCRIPITON                                                  DETAIL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VP/CB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              46.74±




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    MCP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    FAC
                                                                                                                                                                                                         47.30                                                  47.24
                                                                                                                                                                                               MATCH EX.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1     GRADE SITE TO ELEVATIONS SHOWN ON PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                47.26±   TOC                                                    TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       46.71




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CHECKED BY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ALL HDPE/RCP CLASS III PIPE TO HAVE SOIL TIGHT JOINTS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        FIELD CREW
                                                                                                                                                                                                  TOC                                                                             MATCH EX.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DRAWN BY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DWG. FILE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   46.73±
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TOA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                       MATCH EX.                                                   47.15
N 00°09'00" E 130.73'




                                                                                                                                                                                                        47.17±                                                     TOC                       MATCH EX.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                         TOC                                                                                  46.76±
                                                                                                                                                                                                           SDCB                                                                                TOA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MATCH EX.
                                                                                                                                                                                                   TOG=4245.65
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            46.80±
                                                                                                                                                                                               IE 8" S = 4243.70                                                             TOA
                                                                                                                                                                                               IE 8" N = 4243.50


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        NOTE:
                                                                                                                                                                                         FFE=4247.33                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    POTHOLE TO IDENTIFY ANY CONFLICTS BEFORE ANY PIPE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        INSTALLATION. CONTACT ENGINEER IF ANY CONFLICTS ARE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        IDENTIFIED.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  N 89°54'13" E 85.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          80.50'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LAND SURVEYING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        9138 SOUTH STATE STREET SUITE #100
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ENGINEERING &

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SANDY, UTAH 84070 (801) 542-7192
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4.50'
                                                                                                                            4247




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            BENCHMARK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        S 00°05'30" W 64.10'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        NOTE:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              www.benchmarkcivil.com
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S 00°05'30" W 64.10'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PRIOR TO FABRICATION OR CONSTRUCTION, BEGIN AT THE LOW END OF ALL GRAVITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        UTILITY LINES AND VERIFY THE INVERT ELEVATION OF THE POINT OF CONNECTION.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        NOTIFY ENGINEER FOR REDESIGN IF CONNECTION POINT IS HIGHER THAN SHOWN OR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             /    /      /                          /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        IF ANY UTILITY CONFLICTS OCCUR. GRAVITY CONNECTIONS MUST BE DONE PRIOR TO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   47
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 42                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BUILDING FOOTINGS AND ROUGH PLUMBING ARE CONSTRUCTED.

                                                                                                                                                                 LOT 1                                                             MATCH EX.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    47.30±
                                                                                                                                                               81,559 SQ FT                                                          TOC MATCH EX.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               8
                                                                                                                                                               1.872 ACRES                                                                   47.21±                         MATCH EX.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             424
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SURVEY CONTROL NOTE:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TOC                            47.23±
                                                                                                                                                      315 WEST 3300 SOUTH                                                                                                     TOA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       THE CONTRACTOR OR SURVEYOR PERFORMING THE CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SD


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    47.14                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SURVEYING SHALL BE RESPONSIBLE TO PROVIDE CONSTRUCTION LAYOUT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4.50'
                                                                                                                                                                                         MATCH EX.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PER THE APPROVED PLANS ONLY. THE SURVEYOR SHALL ALSO BE
                                                                                                                                                                                          47.28±                                                                                                                                                                            148.50'
                                                                                                                                                                                           TOA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        MATCH EX.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       RESPONSIBLE FOR VERIFYING HORIZONTAL CONTROL FROM THE SURVEY
                                                                                                                                                                                                         47.21
                                                                                                                                                                                                         TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         47.22±
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TOA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S 89°54'27" W 153.00'                                                                                                                                                                     MONUMENTS AND FOR VERIFYING ANY ADDITIONAL CONTROL POINTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                         SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -1.9%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SDCB                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SHOWN ON THE SURVEY OR IMPROVEMENTS PLANS OR ON ELECTRONIC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -0.5%




                                                                                                                                                                                         MATCH EX.                                                RIM=4246.57
                                                                                                                                                                                          47.00±
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DATA PROVIDED BY BENCHMARK ENGINEERING AND LAND SURVEYING.
                                                                                                                                                                                           TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IE 8" NE = 4244.87                           MATCH EX.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                THE SURVEYOR SHALL ALSO USE THE BENCHMARKS AS SHOWN ON THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IE 4" N = 4245.54                             47.59±
                                                                                                                                                                                                            MATCH EX.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TOA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PLAN, AND VERIFY THEM AGAINST NO LESS THAN THREE EXISTING HARD
                                                                                                                                                                                                              47.16±                                  MATCH EX. MATCH EX.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       47.24±                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           IMPROVEMENT ELEVATIONS INCLUDED ON THESE PLANS OR ON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -0.1%




                                                                                                                                                                                                               TOA                                               47.37±




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               S 00°09'00" W 112.99'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TOA                                   MATCH EX.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TOA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ELECTRONIC DATA PROVIDED BY BENCHMARK ENGINEERING AND LAND
                                                                                                                                                                                                          MATCH EX.
                                                                                                                                                                                                           47.26±
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               47.78±
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         C .
                                                                                                                                                                                                            TOA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TOA                                     MATCH EX.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I N                                                                                                                                SURVEYING. IF ANY DISCREPANCIES ARE ENCOUNTERED, THE SURVEYOR
                                                                                   -0.7%
                                                                                                                     EX. WATERWAY                                                  MATCH EX.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         48.14±
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TOA                                                                    S E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                I -018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SHALL IMMEDIATELY NOTIFY THE ENGINEER AND RESOLVE THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              R                                                                                                                                         DISCREPANCIES BEFORE PROCEEDING WITH ANY CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            RP 451
                                                                                                                                                                                    47.21±
                                                                                                                     (PROTECT)                                                                             47.98                                                                                                                         48.24
                                                                                                                                                                                     TOA                                                                                 48.01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -5.1%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SURVEYING. IT IS ALSO THE RESPONSIBILITY OF THE SURVEYOR TO VERIFY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        NT -25-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -4.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                           TOC                                                           TOC              48.19                                          TOC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       E                                                                                                                                                ANY ELECTRONIC DATA WITH THE APPROVED STAMPED AND SIGNED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           %




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          15
                                                                                                          7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .5%




                                                                                                424
                                                                                                                                                                                           MATCH EX.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         48
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   S H                                                                                                                                                  PLANS AND NOTIFY THE ENGINEER WITH ANY DISCREPANCIES.
                                        8%




                                                                                                                                                                                            47.53±
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -0.1%                         -1.0%                    -0.2%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TF EL#
                                     -1.




                                                                                                                                                                                             TOA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SHELTER THE HOMELESS, INC
                                                                                 48.94                                                                                                                             -6.5%              48.32
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   48.32 48.50                                                                                                               A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            C RC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -1.7%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PA
                                                                                                                                                                                                         48.32                                                     TOC TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -1.9% -1.8%




                                                                                 TOC                                                                                                                                                  TOC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               NOTE:
                                          /




                                                                                                                                                                                                         TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -1.9%




                                       47.66                                     MATCH EX.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SAWCUT WIDTH, LOCATIONS AND TIE-IN ELEVATIONS TO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               300 WEST STREET
                                                                                                                                                                                      MATCH EX.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (PUBLIC STREET)
                                                                                   49.03±          8                                                                                                      48.82
                         46.63          EG            47.21
                                                                                                424                                                                                    48.94±              TOC                                                                                                                         48.58                                                                                                                                                                                                            EXISTING GRADE ARE APPROXIMATE. CONTRACTOR TO FIELD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -1.9%




                                                                                    TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -1.2%




                          EG                          TOC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TOC
                                          47.11                                                                                                                                         TOA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VERIFY LOCATION, EXTENT OF SAWCUTTING, AND TIE-IN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
                                    73.39'




                                           EG                                                                                                                                                                                          -8.3%                                                             /                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SLOPES TO EXISTING GRADE PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION. IT IS
                         46.28
                          EG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        THE INTENT ON THESE PLANS THAT ALL PAVEMENT SHALL TIE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       48.57
                                          47.12                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         INTO EXISTING GRADE PER SLOPES LISTED ON CGN.01 NOTE 70.
                                .97'




                                          TOC
                                                          -1.7% -1.9%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SEE NOTES 66, 70, 82, & 83 ON CGN.01 FOR FURTHER DETAIL.
                                                                                            MATCH EX.                                                                                                                                                      48.43
                                            261




                                              47.21                                48.92     49.01±
                                                                         -8.1%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TOC
                                                                -7.7%




                                                                                                                                                                                                  MATCH EX.           48.82                                                      48.43
                                              TOC      47                          TOC 47.99 TOC                                                                                                   48.93±             TOC                                                        TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               "                                                                      "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MATCH EX.
                                                  -12.3%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          315 W. 3300 S.
                                                                                           TOC                                                                                                      TOC                                                                       MATCH EX.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       48.93±
                                          W




                        46.65                                                                48.08                                                                                                                                                                             48.92±
                                                  47




                         EG
                                                                -1.9%                                                                                                                                                                                   TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TOC
                                        "




                                                                                             TOC
                                      8



                                                                   -8.7%
                                  0'0




                                                                                           G
                                        N 11°2




                                                  47.89
                                                  TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                       S 89°54'40" W 161.89'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              47.33
                                                                        47.12         47.37                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       47.24
                                                                         EG            EG                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TOC     TOC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               47.33                         47.01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     MATCH EX.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       47.33                   TOC                           TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      46.73±
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       TOC          47.33
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       TOA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  47.24
                                                                                                                                                                                                        LC                                                                  LC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                46.71
                                                                                                                                                       AN
                                                                                                                                                         Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                    D ,L                                                                D ,L                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EG
                                                                                                          S 00°05'30" W 118.09'




                                                                                                                                                     P                                             N                                                                  N
                                                                                                                                                   M
                                                                                                                                                CO CRE 05
                                                                                                                                                          S
                                                                                                                                                                                              B  RA RES 6                                                        B  RA RES 7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           47.33
                                                                                                                                             AS    A -0                                 M ILY N AC 1-00                                                     MILY N AC 1-00                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TOC                             -1.9%
                                                                                                                                         AR G REEN -451                                A     EE
                                                                                                                                                                                    S F , GR -25-4
                                                                                                                                                                                                     5                                                    A     EE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       S F , GR -25-4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5
                                                                                                                                       T           5                              A                                                                  A
                                                                                                                                     ES 35, G 15-2                              OM 36          5                                                   OM 37          5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              COVERED WALKWAY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -1.2%
                                                                                                                                   U                                                         1                                                                  1
                                                                                                                                  Q OT L#                                     TH LOT EL#                                                         TH LOT EL#
                                                                                                                                    L CE                                             RC                                                                 RC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MATCH EX.                                                                47.01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          BENCHMARK:
                                                                                                                                        R                                         PA                                                                 PA
                                                                                                                                     PA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           47.30±                                                                  TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          STREET MONUMENT LOCATED AT THE INTERSECTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TOC
                                                                    '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          OF 3300 SOUTH STREET AND 300 WEST STREET.
                                                              116.89




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          46.92
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TOC                             ELEVATION = 4246.99
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MATCH EX.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   MATCH EX.                                                                       46.76±
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    47.27±                  47.24                         47.15                     TOA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TOC                    TOC                           TOC
                                                                                                115.59'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PROJECT NO.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MATCH EX.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2307141
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          46.80±
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TOA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GRADING &
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SCALE: 1 IN=10FT                                                                                                     DRAINAGE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               DETAIL A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CGD.01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         5 OF 7
                                                                  N 89°59'20" W 16.45'
                                                                                                                                                                        GENERAL                                                                                                             SEWER

                                                                                                                                                                        1.    ALL MATERIALS AND CONSTRUCTION IN THE PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY SHALL BE IN ACCORDANCE WITH RESPONSIBLE             32.  ALL SEWER LINE TO BE FLUSHED, PRESSURE TESTED TO 5 PSI VIDEO INSPECTED AND OTHERWISE TESTED IN                  67.        SITE WORK SHALL MEET OR EXCEED OWNER'S SITE SPECIFICATIONS.
                             LINETYPES:                                                                  SYMBOLS:                                                       DISTRICT OR AGENCY.                                                                                                 ACCORDANCE WITH DISTRICT STANDARDS PRIOR TO PLACING IN SERVICE.


                                                                                                                                                                        2.    CONTRACTOR AND APPLICABLE SUBCONTRACTORS SHALL ATTEND ALL PRE-CONSTRUCTION CONFERENCES AND                                                                                                                                         68.  ALL SITE CONCRETE OR CONCRETE ELEMENT NOT SPECIFICALLY SHOWN AND DETAILED ON STRUCTURAL DRAWINGS TO
          NEW                                EXISTING                                                    NEW      EXISTING                                              PERIODIC PROGRESS MEETINGS. PRIOR TO ANY WORK BEING PERFORMED, THE CONTRACTOR SHALL CONTACT RESPONSIBLE             33.   ALL SEWER PIPES ARE TO BE SDR-35 PVC PIPE.                                                                     HAVE A MINIMUM OF 28 DAY COMPRESSION STRENGTH OF 4000 PSI.
                                                                                                                                                                        DISTRICT OR AGENCY FOR A PRE-CONSTRUCTION CONFERENCE. CONTRACTOR SHALL ALSO NOTIFY THE APPROPRIATE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ADJUST ACCORDINGLY FOR REDUCED SIZE SHEETS
                                                                                                                                                                        PROJECT CONTACTS (48) HOURS IN ADVANCE OF SAID MEETING.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DESCRIPTION
                                                                           SECTION LINE                                                                                                                                                                                                     34.   SEWER MANHOLES, LATERALS AND CLEANOUTS TO BE INSTALLED PER RESPONSIBLE DISTRICT OR AGENCY STANDARDS.           69.  APPROVED PROTECTIVE MEASURES AND TEMPORARY DRAINAGE PROVISIONS MUST BE USED TO PROTECT ADJOINING
                                                                                                                                 SECTION CORNER (FOUND)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SCALE MEASURES 1-INCH ON FULL SIZE SHEETS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            THE UNIT COST OF THE SEWER LATERAL INCLUDES CONNECTION TO THE SEWER MAIN. THE CLEANOUT RISER FOR EACH                PROPERTIES DURING THE GRADING PROJECT.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           04/25/2024 REVISED PER OWNER COMMENTS
                                                                                                                                                                        3.    CONTRACTOR SHALL BE RESPONSIBLE FOR ALL PUBLIC SAFETY AND OSHA STANDARDS.                                     SERVICE SHALL BE INSTALLED BY THE CONTRACTOR.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      12/14/2023 REVISED PER UDOT COMMENTS
                                                                           PROPERTY LINE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         11/30/2023 REVISED PER CITY COMMENTS


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             03/06/2024 REVISED PER CITY COMMENTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    04/08/2024 REVISED PER CITY COMMENTS


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     08/29/2024 REVISED PER CITY COMMENTS
                                                                                                                                 SECTION CORNER (NOT FOUND)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 70.    ALL DESIGN SLOPES AND TIE-IN SLOPES SHALL CONFORM TO THE FOLLOWING LIMITATIONS. CONTRACTOR SHALL NOTIFY
                                                                           ADJACENT PL or LOT LINES                                                                     4.   THE CONTRACTOR SHALL FAMILIARIZE HIM/HER SELF WITH THE PLANS, THE GEOLOGY REPORTS AND THE SITE                 35.   SEWER CLEANOUTS MUST BE INSTALLED AT A MINIMUM OF EVERY 50 L.F. FOR 4 INCH Ø LATERALS AND EVERY 100 L.F. FOR   CIVIL ENGINEER FOR REDESIGN IF ANY AREAS EXCEED THE FOLLOWING SLOPES PRIOR TO FORMING, POURING OR PAVING ANY
                                                                                                                                 STREET MONUMENT (FOUND)                CONDITIONS PRIOR TO COMMENCING WORK. CONTRACTOR SHALL INSPECT THE SITE OF WORK PRIOR TO BIDDING TO SATISFY          6 INCH Ø LATERALS, OR PER THE RESPONSIBLE DISTRICT OR AGENCY STANDARDS, WHICHEVER IS MORE FREQUENT.                  HARDSCAPE.
                                                                                                                                                                        THEMSELVES BY PERSONAL EXAMINATION OR BY SUCH OTHER MEANS AS THEY MAY PREFER, OF THE LOCATION OF THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  70.1. LANDSCAPING SHALL SLOPE AT A MINIMUM OF 2% AND MAXIMUM OF 33% IN ANY DIRECTION
                                                                           RIGHT-OF-WAY LINE                                                                            PROPOSED WORK, AND OF THE ACTUAL CONDITIONS OF AND AT THE SITE OF WORK.
                                                                                                                                 STREET MONUMENT (NOT FOUND)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      70.2. ASPHALT SHALL SLOPE AT A MINIMUM OF 1.5% AND MAXIMUM OF 5% IN ANY DIRECTION, SEE 68.6
                                                                                                                                                                        CONDITIONS WHICH APPEAR TO THEM TO BE IN CONFLICT WITH THE LETTER OR SPIRIT OF THE PROJECT PLANS AND                36.   A SEWER CLEANOUT MUST BE INSTALLED 5 L.F. TO 10 L.F. FROM ANY PROPOSED STRUCTURE, OR PER THE RESPONSIBLE        70.3. CONCRETE FLATWORK SHALL SLOPE AT A MINIMUM OF 1% AND MAXIMUM OF 5% IN ANY DIRECTION, SEE 68.6
                                                                           CENTERLINE of ROAD                                                                           SPECIFICATIONS, THEY SHALL CONTACT THE ENGINEER FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND EXPLANATION BEFORE SUBMITTING        DISTRICT OR AGENCY STANDARDS.                                                                                         70.4. CURB AND GUTTER SHALL SLOPE AT A MINIMUM OF 0.5% AND MAXIMUM OF 5% IN THE LONGITUDINAL DIRECTION
                                                                                                                                BRASS CAP MONUMENT                      THEIR BID.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                70.5. ROADWAY CROSS SLOPES SHALL BE BETWEEN 2% AND 4% OR WITHIN THE RESPONSIBLE DISTRICT OR AGENCY'S LIMITS
                                                                           EASEMENT LINE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          70.6.FINISHED GRADE SHALL SLOPE AWAY FROM ALL BUILDINGS FOR A MINIMUM OF 10 FEET WITH THE FOLLOWING SLOPES:
                                                                                                                                POWER POLE & OVERHEAD POWER             SUBMISSION OF A BID BY THE CONTRACTOR SHALL CONSTITUTE ACKNOWLEDGMENT THAT, IF AWARDED THE CONTRACT, THEY           37.   ALL SEWER LATERAL BENDS AND ANGLES TO BE INSTALLED AS SWEEPING BENDS WITH SEWER CLEANOUTS.                          LANDSCAPING AT A MINIMUM OF 5%, AND IMPERVIOUS SURFACES AT A MINIMUM OF 2%
                                                                                                                                                                        HAVE RELIED AND ARE RELYING ON THEIR OWN EXAMINATION OF (1) THE SITE OF THE WORK, (2) ACCESS TO THE SITE, AND (3)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  70.7. ALL ADA COMPONENTS SHALL MEET CURRENT ADA AND APWA SLOPE REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                                                        ALL OTHER DATA AND MATTERS REQUISITE TO THE FULFILLMENT OF THE WORK AND ON THEIR OWN KNOWLEDGE OF EXISTING
                                                                           CURB & GUTTER
                                                                                                                                LIGHT POLE                              FACILITIES ON AND IN THE VICINITY OF THE SITE OF THE WORK TO BE CONSTRUCTED UNDER THIS CONTRACT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            38.   DURING CONSTRUCTION OF THE SEWERLINE, WYES NEED TO BE INSTALLED FOR THE LATERALS. LATERALS ARE 4" AND
                                                                                                                                                                        THE INFORMATION PROVIDED BY THE OWNER OR THE ENGINEER IS NOT INTENDED TO BE A SUBSTITUTE FOR, OR A SUPPLEMENT       NEED TO COME IN AT THE TOP OF THE PIPE WITH A WYE. (SEE RESPONSIBLE DISTRICT OR AGENCY STANDARDS)                    DEWATERING
                                                                           EDGE OF ASPHALT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DATE
                                                                                                                                 GUY WIRE                               TO, THE INDEPENDENT VERIFICATION BY THE CONTRACTOR TO THE EXTENT SUCH INDEPENDENT INVESTIGATION OF SITE
                                                                                                                                                                        CONDITIONS IS DEEMED NECESSARY OR DESIRABLE BY THE CONTRACTOR. CONTRACTOR SHALL ACKNOWLEDGE THAT THEY                                                                                                                                    71.  THE CONTRACTOR SHALL FURNISH, INSTALL, OPERATE AND MAINTAIN ALL MACHINERY, APPLIANCES AND EQUIPMENT TO
                                                                           FENCE / WALL, STONE                                                                          HAVE NOT RELIED SOLELY UPON OWNER OR ENGINEER FURNISHED INFORMATION REGARDING SITE CONDITIONS IN PREPARING          39. IT IS THE INTENT ON THESE PLANS THAT ALL SEWER PIPES SHALL SLOPE TO AN EXISTING SEWER CONNECTION VIA             MAINTAIN ALL EXCAVATIONS FREE FROM WATER DURING CONSTRUCTION. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL DISPOSE OF THE WATER SO
                                                                                                                                 TELEPHONE MANHOLE                      AND SUBMITTING THEIR BID.                                                                                           GRAVITY FLOW. CONTRACTOR TO START AT THE LOW END OF GRAVITY UTILITY LINES AND VERIFY THAT ALL INVERT ELEVATIONS      AS NOT TO CAUSE DAMAGE TO PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY, OR TO CAUSE A NUISANCE OR MENACE TO THE PUBLIC OR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PROVE SLOPE TO EXISTING CONNECTION VIA GRAVITY. SLOPES MUST MEET OR EXCEED THE SEWER DISTRICTS MINIMUM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     No.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VIOLATE THE LAW. THE DEWATERING SYSTEM SHALL BE INSTALLED AND OPERATED SO THAT THE GROUND LEVEL OUTSIDE THE
                                                                           FENCE, BLOCK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            STANDARDS. NOTIFY ENGINEER IF THERE ARE DISCREPANCIES THAT WOULD CAUSE THE SEWER UTILITY NOT TO DRAIN VIA
                                                                                                          S            S         SANITARY SEWER MANHOLE                 5.    ALL WORK SHALL COMPLY WITH THE AMERICAN PUBLIC WORKS ASSOCIATION UTAH CHAPTER (APWA) MANUAL OF                GRAVITY ON THE SITE.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EXCAVATION IS NOT REDUCED TO THE EXTENT WHICH WOULD CAUSE DAMAGE OR ENDANGER ADJACENT STRUCTURES OR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PROPERTY. ALL COST FOR DEWATERING SHALL BE INCLUDED IN THE UNIT PRICE BID FOR ALL PIPE CONSTRUCTION. THE STATIC
                                                                                                                                                                        STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS 2017 EDITION AND THE MANUAL OF STANDARD PLANS 2017 EDITION. SAID STANDARD                                                                                                                                        WATER LEVEL SHALL BE DRAWN DOWN A MINIMUM OF 1 FOOT BELOW THE BOTTOM OF EXCAVATIONS TO MAINTAIN THE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1
                                                                           FENCE, BRICK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 08/29/2023
                                                                                                          D            D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2307141_SITE
                                                                                                                                 STORM DRAIN MANHOLE                    SPECIFICATIONS AND PLANS SHALL BE SUBSIDIARY TO MORE STRINGENT REQUIREMENTS BY APPLICABLE LOCAL JURISDICTION.                                                                                                                            UNDISTURBED STATE OF NATURAL SOILS AND ALLOW THE PLACEMENT OF ANY FILL TO THE SPECIFIED DENSITY. THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            WATER                                                                                                                CONTRACTOR SHALL HAVE ON HAND, PUMPING EQUIPMENT AND MACHINERY IN GOOD CONDITION FOR EMERGENCIES AND
                                                                           FENCE, CHAIN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SHALL HAVE WORKMEN AVAILABLE FOR ITS OPERATION: DEWATERING SYSTEM SHALL OPERATE CONTINUOUSLY UNTIL BACKFILL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VP/CB
                                                                                                                                 CATCH BASIN                            6.    THE CONTRACTOR SHALL BE SKILLED AND REGULARLY ENGAGED IN THE GENERAL CLASS AND TYPE OF WORK CALLED                                                                                                                                 HAS BEEN COMPLETED TO 1 FOOT ABOVE THE NORMAL STATIC GROUNDWATER LEVEL.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 MCP
                                                                                                                                                                        FOR IN THE PROJECT PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS. THEREFORE, THE OWNER IS RELYING UPON THE EXPERIENCE AND                40.   WATERLINES TO BE PVC C-900. WATER LINES SHALL BE A MINIMUM OF 10' HORIZONTALLY FROM SEWER MAINS.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 FAC
                                                                           FENCE, IRON                                                                                  EXPERTISE OF THE CONTRACTOR, IT SHALL BE EXPECTED THAT THE PRICES PROVIDED WITHIN THE CONTRACT DOCUMENTS            CROSSINGS SHALL MEET STATE HEALTH STANDARDS. (MECHANICAL JOINTS REQUIRED WHEN LESS THAN 18" VERTICAL OR TEN
                                                                                                                                DIRECTION OF DRAINAGE                   SHALL INCLUDE ALL LABOR AND MATERIALS NECESSARY AND PROPER FOR THE WORK CONTEMPLATED AND THAT THE WORK BE           FEET HORIZONTAL SEPARATION FROM SEWERLINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 72.  THE CONTRACTOR SHALL CONTROL SURFACE WATER TO PREVENT ENTRY INTO EXCAVATIONS. AT EACH EXCAVATION, A
                                                                                                                                                                        COMPLETED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THEIR TRUE INTENT AND PURPOSE.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CHECKED BY

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     FIELD CREW
                                                                           FENCE, VINYL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SUFFICIENT NUMBER OF TEMPORARY OBSERVATION WELLS TO CONTINUOUSLY CHECK THE GROUNDWATER LEVEL SHALL BE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     DRAWN BY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     DWG. FILE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                          W           W          WATER MANHOLE                          THE CONTRACTOR SHALL BE COMPETENT, KNOWLEDGEABLE AND HAVE SPECIAL SKILLS ON THE NATURE, EXTENT AND                  41.  ALL WATERLINES SHALL BE 8" MINIMUM SIZE AND SERVICE LATERALS SHALL BE 1-1/2" MINIMUM UNLESS OTHERWISE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PROVIDED.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     DATE
                                                                                                                                                                        INHERENT CONDITIONS OF THE WORK TO BE PERFORMED. CONTRACTOR SHALL ALSO ACKNOWLEDGE THAT THERE ARE                   NOTED.
                         X                                 X               FENCE, WIRE                                                                                  CERTAIN REGULAR AND INHERENT CONDITIONS EXISTENT IN THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE PARTICULAR FACILITIES WHICH MAY
                                                                                                                                 WATER VALVE                            CREATE, DURING THE CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM, UNUSUAL OR PECULIAR UNSAFE CONDITIONS HAZARDOUS TO PERSONS,                                                                                                                                     73. SUMPS SHALL BE NO DEEPER THAN 5 FEET AND SHALL BE AT THE LOW POINT OF EXCAVATION. EXCAVATION SHALL BE
                                                                                                                                                                        PROPERTY AND THE ENVIRONMENT. CONTRACTOR SHALL BE AWARE OF SUCH PECULIAR RISKS AND HAVE THE SKILL AND                                                                                                                                    GRADED TO DRAIN TO THE SUMPS.
                                                                           FENCE, WOOD                                                                                                                                                                                                      42.  WATER SERVICE LATERALS TO INCLUDE ALL BRASS SADDLE; CORP. STOP LATERAL, DOUBLE CHECK VALVE AND
             *                                      *                                                     W           W          WATER METER                            EXPERIENCE TO FORESEE AND TO ADOPT PROTECTIVE MEASURES TO ADEQUATELY AND SAFELY PERFORM THE CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                                                                        WORK WITH RESPECT TO SUCH HAZARDS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE, AND SHUTOFF VALVE IN BOX NEAR BUILDING EDGE.
                                                                           INDEX CONTOUR LINE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    74.   THE CONTROL OF GROUNDWATER SHALL BE SUCH THAT SOFTENING OF THE BOTTOM OF EXCAVATIONS, OR FORMATION
                                                                                                                                FIRE HYDRANT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OF "QUICK" CONDITIONS OR "BOILS", DOES NOT OCCUR. DEWATERING SYSTEMS SHALL BE DESIGNED AND OPERATED SO AS TO
                                                                                                                       Y                                                7.    THE CONTRACTOR SHALL BE RESPONSIBLE FOR ALL PERMITS AND LICENSES REQUIRED FOR THE CONSTRUCTION AND            43.   ALL WATERLINES SHALL BE 48" BELOW FINISH GROUND TO TOP OF PIPE. ALL VALVE BOXES AND MANHOLES SHALL BE




                                                                                                                          D
                                                                                                                      H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PREVENT REMOVAL OF NATURAL SOILS. THE RELEASE OF GROUNDWATER AT ITS STATIC LEVEL SHALL BE PERFORMED IN SUCH A
                                                                           INTERMEDIATE CONTOUR LINE                                                                    COMPLETION OF THE PROJECT, AND SHALL PERFORM ALL WORK IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE REQUIREMENTS AND CONDITIONS            RAISED OR LOWERED TO FINISH GRADE AND SHALL INCLUDE A CONCRETE COLLAR IN PAVED AREAS. ALL WATER LINES SHALL          MANNER AS TO MAINTAIN THE UNDISTURBED STATE OF NATURAL FOUNDATION SOILS, PREVENT DISTURBANCE OF COMPACTED
                                                                                                                                IRRIGATION VALVE                        OF ALL PERMITS AND APPROVALS APPLICABLE TO THIS PROJECT. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL ENSURE THAT THE NECESSARY             BE LOOPED AROUND GRAVITY LINES OR ROPED PER RESPONSIBLE DISTRICT OR AGENCY INSPECTOR.                                BACKFILL, AND PREVENT FLOTATION OR MOVEMENT OF STRUCTURES, PIPELINES AND SEWERS. IF A UPDES (UTAH POLLUTANT
                                                                                                                                                                        RIGHT-OF-WAY, EASEMENTS, AND/OR PERMITS ARE SECURED PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION. CONTRACTOR SHALL OBTAIN                                                                                                                                       DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM) PERMIT IS REQUIRED FOR DISPOSAL OF WATER FROM CONSTRUCTION DEWATERING
           XX.XX                                                           SPOT ELEVATION                                                                               APPROPRIATE PERMITS WHERE APPLICABLE FOR ANY WORK DONE WITHIN RIGHT-OF-WAY OR EASEMENTS FROM THE CITY                                                                                                                                    ACTIVITIES, IT SHALL BE OBTAINED BY THE CONTRACTOR PRIOR TO ANY DEWATERING ACTIVITIES.
                                                                                                                                 GAS MANHOLE
            TOC                                                                                                                                                         AND/OR UDOT. CONTRACTOR SHALL NOTIFY CITY, COUNTY, AND/OR STATE, 24 HOURS IN ADVANCE OF COMMUNICATING THE           44.    CONTRACTOR TO NOTIFY RESPONSIBLE DISTRICT OR AGENCY FOR CHLORINE TEST PRIOR TO FLUSHING LINES, CHLORINE
                                                                                                                                                                        WORK, OR AS REQUIRED BY SAID PERMITS.                                                                               LEFT IN PIPE 24 HRS. MINIMUM WITH 25 PPM RESIDUAL. ALL TURNING OF MAINLINE VALVES, CHLORINATION, FLUSHING,
                                                                           SANITARY SEWER LINE
           SS                                      SS                                                                            TREE                                                                                                                                                       PRESSURE TESTING, BACTERIA TESTING, ETC. TO BE COORDINATED WITH RESPONSIBLE DISTRICT OR AGENCY. ALL TESTS TO BE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 75.  ONE HUNDRED PERCENT STANDBY PUMPING CAPACITY SHALL BE AVAILABLE ON SITE AT ALL TIMES AND SHALL BE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            IN ACCORDANCE WITH RESPONSIBLE DISTRICT OR AGENCY.
                                                                                                                                                                        8.    CONCRETE PLACEMENTS SHALL BE CONTINUOUS BETWEEN CONSTRUCTION JOINTS. CONTRACTION JOINTS SHALL BE                                                                                                                                   CONNECTED TO THE DEWATERING SYSTEM PIPING AS TO PERMIT IMMEDIATE USE. IN ADDITION STANDBY EQUIPMENT AND
           SD                                      SD                      STORM DRAIN LINE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      APPLIANCES FOR ALL ORDINARY EMERGENCIES, AND COMPETENT WORKMEN FOR OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE OF ALL
                                                                                                                                                                        PLACED FOR SLAB-ON-GRADE SUCH THAT THE MAXIMUM DISTANCE BETWEEN JOINTS IS 20 FEET IN EITHER DIRECTION FOR
                                                                                                                                                                        LIGHT DUTY TRAFFIC AND 12 FEET IN EITHER DIRECTION FOR HEAVY DUTY TRAFFIC.                                                                                                                                                               DEWATERING EQUIPMENT SHALL BE ON SITE AT ALL TIMES. STANDBY EQUIPMENT SHALL INCLUDE EMERGENCY POWER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            45.  BOTTOM FLANGE OF FIRE HYDRANTS TO BE SET TO APPROXIMATELY 4 INCHES ABOVE BACK OF CURB ELEVATION.                GENERATION AND AUTOMATIC SWITCH OVER TO THE EMERGENCY GENERATOR WHEN NORMAL POWER FAILS. DEWATERING
           W                                       W                       WATER LINE                                                                                                                                                                                                       HYDRANTS TO INCLUDE TEE, 6" LINE VALVE, AND HYDRANT COMPLETE TO MEET RESPONSIBLE DISTRICT OR AGENCY STANDARDS,       SYSTEMS SHALL NOT BE SHUT DOWN BETWEEN SHIFTS, ON HOLIDAYS, ON WEEKENDS, OR DURING WORK STOPPAGES.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED ON PLANS.
                                                                                                                       ABBREVIATIONS                                    9.    IT IS INTENDED THAT THESE PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS REQUIRE ALL LABOR AND MATERIALS NECESSARY AND PROPER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LAND SURVEYING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     9138 SOUTH STATE STREET SUITE #100
           IRR                                     IRR                     IRRIGATION LINE                                                                              FOR THE WORK CONTEMPLATED AND THAT THE WORK BE COMPLETED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THEIR TRUE INTENT AND




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ENGINEERING &

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SANDY, UTAH 84070 (801) 542-7192
                                                                                                                                                                        PURPOSE. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL NOTIFY THE ENGINEER IMMEDIATELY REGARDING ANY DISCREPANCIES OR AMBIGUITIES                                                                                                                                 SITE SAFETY AND MAINTENANCE
                                                                                                                                                                        WHICH MAY EXIST IN THE PLANS OR SPECIFICATIONS. THE ENGINEER'S INTERPRETATION THEREOF SHALL BE CONCLUSIVE. THE      EXISTING UTILITIES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         BENCHMARK
                                                                           OVERHEAD POWER LINE
           OHP                                     OHP
                                                                                                         BC     BAR & CAP              PUE PUBLIC UTILITY EASEMENT      CONTRACTOR SHALL BE HELD RESPONSIBLE FOR ANY FIELD CHANGES MADE WITHOUT PRIOR WRITTEN AUTHORIZATION FROM                                                                                                                                 76.   THE CONTRACTOR SHALL ASSUME SOLE AND COMPLETE RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE JOB SITE CONDITIONS, INCLUDING
                                                                                                                                                                        THE OWNER AND/OR ENGINEER.                                                                                          46.   THE CONTRACTOR SHALL BE RESPONSIBLE FOR ALL UTILITIES SHOWN OR NOT SHOWN. THE INFORMATION SHOWN ON             SAFETY OF ALL PERSONS AND PROPERTY, DURING THE COURSE OF CONSTRUCTION OF THIS PROJECT. THIS REQUIREMENT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           www.benchmarkcivil.com
           UG                                      UG                      UNDERGROUND POWER LINE        BOW    BOTTOM OF VISIBLE WALL R    RADIUS OF CURVE                                                                                                                                 THE PLANS WITH REGARDS TO THE EXISTING UTILITIES AND/OR IMPROVEMENTS WAS DERIVED FROM FIELD INVESTIGATION            SHALL APPLY CONTINUOUSLY, AND SHALL NOT BE LIMITED TO NORMAL WORKING HOURS. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL DEFEND,

                                                                                                         COR.   SECTION CORNER         RR   RAILROAD                    10.   ALL WORK OUTSIDE THE SCOPE OF THESE PLANS SHALL BE CONSTRUCTED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE RESPONSIBLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            AND/OR RECORD INFORMATION. NO REPRESENTATION IS MADE AS TO THE ACCURACY OR COMPLETENESS OF SAID UTILITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            INFORMATION. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL TAKE DUE PRECAUTIONARY MEASURES TO PROTECT THE FACILITIES SHOWN AND ANY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 INDEMNIFY AND HOLD THE OWNER AND THE ENGINEER HARMLESS FROM ANY AND ALL LIABILITY, REAL OR ALLEGED, IN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CONNECTION WITH PERFORMANCE OF WORK ON THIS PROJECT.
            GAS                                    GAS                     GAS LINE
                                                                                                         CB     CATCH BASIN            ROW RIGHT-OF-WAY                 DESIGN. THESE PLANS DO NOT REPLACE ANY STRUCTURAL, ARCHITECTURAL, OR MECHANICAL PLANS. SHOULD A DISCREPANCY
                                                                                                                                                                        ARISE BETWEEN THESE PLANS AND ANOTHER PLAN SET, THE CONTRACTOR SHALL BE RESPONSIBLE TO CONTACT BOTH PARTIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            OTHER FACILITIES NOT OF RECORD OR NOT SHOWN ON THESE PLANS. PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION OR FABRICATION, IT SHALL BE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            THE CONTRACTOR'S SOLE RESPONSIBILITY TO VERIFY ALL EXISTING IMPROVEMENT AND TO EXPOSE ALL EXISTING
                                                                                                         CF     CUBIC FEET             R/W RIGHT-OF-WAY                 TO DETERMINE WHAT SHOULD BE CONSTRUCTED.                                                                            UNDERGROUND UTILITIES RELATED TO THE PROJECT, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO, SEWER, STORM DRAIN, WATER                77.             THE CONTRACTOR AGREES THAT:
               T                                    T                      TELEPHONE LINE                                                                                                                                                                                                   IRRIGATION, GAS, ELECTRICAL, ETC. AND SHALL NOTIFY THE ENGINEER IN WRITING FORTY-EIGHT (48) HOURS IN ADVANCE OF
                                                                                                         D      DELTA ANGLE            SCO SEWER CLEANOUT                                                                                                                                   EXPOSING THE UTILITIES SO, THAT THE EXACT LOCATION, ELEVATION, MATERIAL, ETC. CAN BE VERIFIED AND DOCUMENTED. THE
                                                                                                                                                                        11.  ALL STAIRS AND RAILINGS ARE DESIGNED BY OTHERS AND MUST COMPLY WITH THE ADA STANDARDS FOR ACCESSIBLE                                                                                                                                      A.    THEY SHALL BE RESPONSIBLE TO CLEAN THE JOB SITE AT THE END OF EACH PHASE OF WORK.
           CATV                                    CATV                    CABLE TELEVISION LINE         EG     EXISTING GROUND        SSMH SEWER MANHOLE               DESIGN. SAID STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS AND PLANS SHALL BE SUBSIDIARY TO MORE STRINGENT REQUIREMENTS BY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            COST ASSOCIATED TO PERFORM THIS WORK SHALL BE INCLUDED IN EITHER THE LUMP SUMP CLEARING COST OR IN THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VARIOUS ITEMS OF WORK. IF LOCATION AND/OR ELEVATION DIFFERS FROM THAT SHOWN ON THE DESIGN PLANS, PROVISIONS
                                                                                                         EOA    EDGE OF ASPHALT        SD   STORM DRAIN                 APPLICABLE LOCAL JURISDICTION.                                                                                      TO ACCOMMODATE NEW LOCATION BE MADE PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION.                                                                 B. THEY SHALL BE RESPONSIBLE TO REMOVE AND DISPOSE OF ALL TRASH, SCRAP AND UNUSED MATERIAL AT THEIR OWN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EXPENSE IN A TIMELY MANNER.
                                                                           DRAINAGE / DITCH CENTERLINE
                                                                                                         EOC    EDGE OF CONCRETE       SF   SQUARE FEET
                                                                                                                                                                        12.   THE CONTRACTOR SHALL BE RESPONSIBLE FOR ADEQUATELY SCHEDULING INSPECTION AND TESTING OF ALL FACILITIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       C.    THEY SHALL BE RESPONSIBLE TO MAINTAIN THE SITE IN A NEAT, SAFE AND ORDERLY MANNER AT ALL TIMES.
                                                                           TREE LINE EDGE                EX     EXISTING               TBC  TOP BACK OF CURB            CONSTRUCTED UNDER THIS CONTRACT. ALL TESTING SHALL CONFORM TO THE REGULATORY AGENCY'S STANDARD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            47.  PRIOR TO COMMENCING ANY WORK, IT SHALL BE THE CONTRACTOR'S RESPONSIBILITY TO HAVE EACH UTILITY COMPANY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LOCATE, IN THE FIELD, THEIR MAIN AND SERVICE LINES. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL NOTIFY BLUE STAKES 48 HOURS IN ADVANCE
                                                                                                                                                                        SPECIFICATIONS. ALL TESTING AND INSPECTION SHALL BE PAID FOR BY THE OWNER; ALL RE-TESTING AND/OR REINSPECTION

            FO                                     FO                                                    FFE    FINISH FLOOR ELEVATION TMH TELEPHONE MANHOLE            SHALL BE PAID FOR BY THE CONTRACTOR.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            OF PERFORMING ANY EXCAVATION WORK THE CONTRACTOR SHALL RECORD THE BLUE STAKES ORDER NUMBER AND FURNISH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ORDER NUMBER TO OWNER AND ENGINEER PRIOR TO ANY EXCAVATION. IT WILL BE THE CONTRACTORS SOLE RESPONSIBILITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       D. THEY SHALL BE RESPONSIBLE TO KEEP MATERIALS, EQUIPMENT, AND TRASH OUT OF THE WAY OF OTHER CONTRACTORS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SO AS NOT TO DELAY THE JOB. FAILURE TO DO SO WILL RESULT IN A DEDUCTION FOR THE COST OF CLEAN UP FROM THE
                                                                           FIBER OPTIC LINE                                            TOA TOP OF ASPHALT
                                                                                                         FG     FINISHED GRADE                                                                                                                                                              TO DIRECTLY CONTACT ANY OTHER UTILITY COMPANIES THAT ARE NOT MEMBERS OF BLUE STAKES. IT SHALL BE THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CONTRACTOR'S SOLE RESPONSIBILITY TO PROTECT ALL EXISTING UTILITIES SO THAT NO DAMAGE RESULTS TO THEM DURING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       FINAL PAYMENT.

                                                                           PROPOSED ASPHALT              FH     FIRE HYDRANT           TOC TOP OF CONCRETE              13.    IF EXISTING IMPROVEMENTS NEED TO BE DISTURBED AND/OR REMOVED FOR THE PROPER PLACEMENT OF
                                                                                                                                                                        IMPROVEMENTS TO BE CONSTRUCTED BY THESE PLANS, THE CONTRACTOR SHALL BE RESPONSIBLE FOR PROTECTING EXISTING          THE PERFORMANCE OF THIS CONTRACT. ANY REPAIRS NECESSARY TO DAMAGED UTILITIES SHALL BE PAID FOR BY THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       E. THEY SHALL BE RESPONSIBLE FOR THEIR OWN SAFETY, TRAFFIC CONTROL, PERMITS, RETESTING AND REINSPECTIONS AT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CONTRACTORS AND UTILITY COMPANIES INSTALLING NEW STRUCTURES, UTILITIES AND SERVICE TO THE PROJECT.
                                                                                                         FL     FLOW LINE              TOF TOP OF FOOTING               IMPROVEMENTS FROM DAMAGE. COST OF REPLACING OR REPAIRING EXISTING IMPROVEMENTS SHALL BE INCLUDED IN THE UNIT                                                                                                                                   THEIR OWN EXPENSE.
                                                                                                                                                                        PRICE BID FOR ITEMS REQUIRING REMOVAL AND/OR REPLACEMENT OF EXISTING IMPROVEMENTS AND ANYTHING THAT HAS
                                                                           PROPOSED CONCRETE
                                                                                                         GB     GRADE BREAK            TOE TOE OF SLOPE                 ALREADY BEEN CONSTRUCTED. THERE WILL BE NO EXTRA COST DUE THE CONTRACTOR FOR REPLACING OR REPAIRING                                                                                                                                            F. UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED ALL EXCESS SOILS AND MATERIALS SHALL BECOME THE PROPERTY OF THE CONTRACTOR
                                                                                                                                                                        EXISTING IMPROVEMENTS. WHENEVER EXISTING FACILITIES ARE REMOVED, DAMAGED, BROKEN, OR CUT IN THE INSTALLATION        48.   ALL MANHOLE RIMS, LAMPHOLES, VALVE BOX COVERS, MONUMENT BOXES AND CATCH BASIN GRATES ARE TO BE
                                                                                                         GW     GUY WIRE               TOG TOP OF GRATE                 OF THE WORK COVERED BY THESE PLANS OR SPECIFICATIONS, SAID FACILITIES SHALL BE REPLACED AT THE CONTRACTOR'S         ADJUSTED TO FIT THE FINISHED GRADE AFTER PAVING, UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED. COST FOR THIS WORK SHALL BE INCLUDED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       AND SHALL BE LAWFULLY DISPOSED OF OFF SITE AT THE CONTRACTOR'S EXPENSE.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            IN THE UNIT PRICES FOR SAID FACILITIES.
                                                                                                         HW     HEAD WALL              TOP TOP OF SLOPE                 EXPENSE, AFTER PROPER BACKFILLING AND/OR CONSTRUCTION, WITH MATERIALS EQUAL TO OR BETTER THAN THE MATERIALS
                                                                                                                                                                        USED IN THE ORIGINAL EXISTING FACILITIES. THE FINISHED PRODUCT SHALL BE SUBJECT TO THE APPROVAL OF THE OWNER, THE                                                                                                                              G. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL PROVIDE ALL LIGHTS, BARRICADES, SIGNS, FLAGMEN OR OTHER DEVICES NECESSARY FOR

                                                                                                         I.E.   INVERT ELEVATION       TOW TOP OF WALL                  ENGINEER, AND THE RESPECTIVE REGULATORY AGENCY.                                                                                                                                                                                                PUBLIC SAFETY.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            49. IT SHALL BE THE RESPONSIBILITY OF THE CONTRACTOR TO ASSURE THAT ALL PIPES, WALLS, ETC. ARE ADEQUATELY
                                                                                                         LIP    LENGTH OF CURVE        TR   TELEPHONE RISER                                                                                                                                 BRACED DURING CONSTRUCTION.                                                                                                H. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL BE RESPONSIBLE TO PROVIDE ALL WATER, POWER, SANITARY FACILITIES AND TELEPHONE
                                                                                                                                                                        14.   THE CONTRACTOR SHALL MAINTAIN A NEATLY MARKED SET OF FULL-SIZE AS-BUILT RECORD DRAWINGS SHOWING THE                                                                                                                                      SERVICES AS REQUIRED FOR THE CONTRACTORS USE DURING CONSTRUCTION.
                                                                                                         L      LIP OF CURB            UGP  UNDERGROUND POWER           FINAL LOCATION AND LAYOUT OF ALL MECHANICAL; ELECTRICAL AND INSTRUMENTATION EQUIPMENT; PIPING AND CONDUITS;
                                                                                                                                                                        STRUCTURES AND OTHER FACILITIES. THE AS-BUILTS OF THE ELECTRICAL SYSTEM SHALL INCLUDE THE STREET LIGHT LAYOUT
                                                                                                         LF     LINEAR FEET            VPC VERTICAL POINT OF            PLAN SHOWING LOCATION OF LIGHTS, CONDUITS, CONDUCTORS, POINTS OF CONNECTIONS TO SERVICES, PULLBOXES, AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CLEARING AND GRADING                                                                                                       I.   ALL DEBRIS AND FOREIGN MATERIAL SHALL BE REMOVED FROM THE SITE AND DISPOSED OF AT APPROVED DISPOSAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SITES. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL OBTAIN NECESSARY PERMITS FOR THE TRANSPORTATION OF MATERIAL TO AND FROM THE
                                                                                                         LP     LOW POINT                   CURVATURE                   WIRE SIZES. AS-BUILT RECORD DRAWINGS SHALL REFLECT CHANGE ORDERS, ACCOMMODATIONS, AND ADJUSTMENTS TO ALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            50.  CONTRACTOR SHALL PERFORM EARTHWORK IN ACCORDANCE WITH APWA 2017 STANDARD DRAWINGS AND STANDARD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SITE.
                                                                                                                                                                        IMPROVEMENTS CONSTRUCTED. WHERE NECESSARY, SUPPLEMENTAL DRAWINGS SHALL BE PREPARED AND SUBMITTED BY THE
                                                                                                         M-M    MONUMENT TO MONUMENT   VPI  VERTICAL POINT OF           CONTRACTOR.                                                                                                         SPECIFICATIONS AND THE RECOMMENDED EARTHWORK SPECIFICATION FOUND IN THE PROFESSIONALLY PREPARED REPORT OF
CONSTRUCTION NOTES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          GEOTECHNICAL INVESTIGATION.
                                                                                                         MH     MANHOLE                     INTERSECTION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         78.  FOR ALL WORK WITHIN PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY OR EASEMENTS, THE CONTRACTOR SHALL PRESERVE THE INTEGRITY AND
                                                                                                                                                                        15.  PRIOR TO ACCEPTANCE OF THE PROJECT, THE CONTRACTOR SHALL DELIVER TO ENGINEER. ONE SET OF NEATLY MARKED                                                                                                                              LOCATION OF ANY AND ALL PUBLIC UTILITIES AND PROVIDE THE NECESSARY CONSTRUCTION TRAFFIC CONTROL. CONTRACTOR
RESPONSIBLE DISTRICTS OR AGENCIES AND APPLICABLE STANDARDS
                                                                                                         MON.   SURVEY MONUMENT        VPT VERTICAL POINT OF TANGENCY   AS-BUILT RECORD DRAWINGS SHOWING THE INFORMATION REQUIRED ABOVE. AS-BUILT RECORD DRAWINGS SHALL BE                  51.   THE CONTRACTOR SHALL REMOVE ALL VEGETATION AND DELETERIOUS MATERIALS FROM THE SITE UNLESS NOTED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SHALL, THROUGH THE ENCROACHMENT PERMIT PROCESS, VERIFY WITH THE NECESSARY REGULATORY AGENCIES, THE NEED
CITY OR COUNTY- SALT LAKE CITY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   FOR ANY TRAFFIC ROUTING PLAN. IF PLAN IS REQUIRED, CONTRACTOR SHALL PROVIDE PLAN AND RECEIVED PROPER
WATER UTILITY COMPANY- SALT LAKE CITY PUBLIC UTILITIES (SLCPU)                                           OHP    OVERHEAD POWER         WM WATER METER                   REVIEWED AND THE COMPLETE AS-BUILT RECORD DRAWING SET SHALL BE CURRENT WITH ALL CHANGES AND DEVIATION
                                                                                                                                                                        REDLINES AS A PRECONDITION TO THE FINAL PROGRESS PAYMENT APPROVAL AND/OR FINAL ACCEPTANCE.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            OTHERWISE; ALL EXISTING WELLS AND SEPTIC TANKS SHALL BE REMOVED AND/OR ABANDONED PER THE REQUIREMENTS OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 APPROVALS PRIOR TO BEGINNING CONSTRUCTION. WORK IN EASEMENT AND/OR RIGHTS-OF-WAY IS SUBJECT TO THE APPROVAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ALL LOCAL, STATE AND FEDERAL REGULATIONS. THE COST TO PERFORM THIS WORK SHALL BE INCLUDED IN THE LUMP SUM
SEWER- SALT LAKE CITY PUBLIC UTILITIES (SLCPU)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   AND ACCEPTANCE OF THE REGULATORY AGENCY RESPONSIBLE FOR OPERATION AND/OR MAINTENANCE OF SAID AND/OR
STORM DRAIN/GROUNDWATER- SALT LAKE CITY PUBLIC UTILITIES (SLCPU)                                         PVC    POINT OF CURVATURE     WV   WATER VALVE                                                                                                                                     CLEARING COST.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 RIGHT-OF-WAY. ALL CONSTRUCTION WORK IN UDOT RIGHT- OF -WAY SHALL BE SUBJECT TO INSPECTION BY THE STATE. IT SHALL
                                                                                                                                                                        UTILITIES
ELECTRICAL- ROCKY MOUNTAIN POWER                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 BE THE RESPONSIBILITY OF THE CONTRACTOR TO INSURE THAT INSPECTIONS TAKE PLACE WHERE AND WHEN REQUIRED AND TO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SHELTER THE HOMELESS, INC
TELEPHONE- CENTURY LINK
                                                                                                         PVI    POINT OF INTERSECTION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            INSURE THAT ALL WORK IS COMPLETED TO UDOT STANDARDS.
                                                                                                                                                                        16.    CONTRACTOR TO SPACE UTILITIES TO PROVIDE MINIMUM DISTANCES AS REQUIRED BY LOCAL, COUNTY, STATE, AND          52.  SUBSOIL INVESTIGATIONS MUST BE CONDUCTED AT THE SITE OF THE WORK. ALL FOOTING, FOUNDATION OR STRUCTURAL
NATURAL GAS- DOMINION ENERGY                                                                             PP     POWER POLE                                              INDIVIDUAL UTILITY CODES.                                                                                           WALL CONSTRUCTION MUST ADHERE TO THE RECOMMENDATIONS DETAILED BY THE PROFESSIONAL REPORT OF THESE

APPLICABLE STANDARDS: APWA 2017 STANDARDS                                                                PVT    POINT OF TANGENCY                                                                                                                                                           INVESTIGATIONS, CREATED BY A LICENSED GEOTECHNICAL ENGINEER.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SURFACE IMPROVEMENTS:
                                                                                                                                                                        17.   ALL UTILITES INSTALLED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE RESPONSIBLE DISTRICTS OR AGENCIES STANDARDS AND                 53.  SOIL INVESTIGATIONS MUST BE CONDUCTED BY A LICENSED GEOTECHNICAL ENGINEER FOR DESIGN PURPOSES ONLY,
                                                                                                                                                                        SPECIFICATIONS.                                                                                                                                                                                                                          79.   SUBGRADE PREPARATION: SUBGRADE SHALL BE COMPACTED TO A 95% RELATIVE C0MPACTION TO A MINIMUM DEPTH OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            AND THE DATA SHOWN IN THE REPORTS ARE FOR SUBSURFACE CONDITIONS FOUND AT THE TIME OF THE INVESTIGATION. THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 6" FOR ALL ON-SITE DEVELOPMENT. ALL OFF-SITE IMPROVEMENTS ARE TO BE DONE PER APWA STANDARDS.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            OWNER AND ENGINEER DISCLAIM RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE INTERPRETATION BY THE CONTRACTOR OF DATA, SUCH PROJECTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            OR EXTRAPOLATION, FROM THE TEST HOLES TO OTHER LOCATIONS ON THE SITE OF THE WORK, SOIL BEARING VALUES AND
                                                                                                                                                                        18.   COORDINATE ALL SERVICE LATERAL AND BUILDING CONNECTIONS WITH CORRESPONDING ARCHITECTURAL, MECHANICAL          PROFILES, SOIL STABILITY AND THE PRESENCE, LEVEL AND EXTENT OF UNDERGROUND WATER FOR SUBSURFACE CONDITIONS
                                                                                                                                                                        OR ELECTRICAL DRAWING FOR LOCATION AND ELEVATION. NOTIFY ENGINEER IMMEDIATELY IF ANY DISCREPANCIES ARE              DURING CONSTRUCTION OPERATIONS.                                                                                      80.  AGGREGATE SUB-BASE: AGGREGATE SUB-BASE SHALL BE GRANULAR BACKFILL BORROW. AGGREGATE SUB-BASE
                                                                                                                                                                        ENCOUNTERED.                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MATERIAL SHALL BE CLEAN AND FREE FROM VEGETABLE MATTER AND OTHER DELETERIOUS SUBSTANCE. AGGREGATE SHALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 COMPLY WITH THE GUIDELINE REQUIREMENTS FOR PAVEMENTS FOUND IN THE PROFESSIONALLY PREPARED OF THE SOILS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 INVESTIGATIONS COMPLETED ON THIS SITE.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            54.  ALL PROPOSED ELEVATIONS SHOWN ON THE GRADING PLAN ARE TO FINISHED SURFACE, THE CONTRACTOR IS
                                                                                                                                                                        19.  ALL STORM DRAIN MANHOLES AND CATCH BASINS ARE TO BE PRECAST CONCRETE FROM APPROVED LOCAL                       RESPONSIBLE TO DEDUCT THE THICKNESS OF THE PAVEMENT STRUCTURAL SECTION FOR TOP OF SUB GRADE ELEVATIONS.
                                                                                                                                                                        MANUFACTURER UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED. AND COMPLY WITH CITY/COUNTY STANDARD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 81.  AGGREGATE BASE: AGGREGATE BASE SHALL BE GRADE 3/4 UNTREATED BASE COURSE, AND COMPLY PREPARED REPORT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       315 W. 3300 S.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OF THE SOILS INVESTIGATION PREPARED ON THIS SITE.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            55.   IF AT ANY TIME DURING CONSTRUCTION ANY UNFAVORABLE GEOLOGICAL CONDITIONS ARE ENCOUNTERED, WORK IN
                                                                                                                                                                        20.   ALL STORM WATER CONVEYANCE PIPING TO BE RCP - CLASS 3 OR ADS HDPE PIPE OR EQUAL UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED.       THAT AREA WILL STOP UNTIL APPROVED CORRECTIVE MEASURES ARE OBTAINED FROM THE ENGINEER.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 82.        ALL SIDEWALKS AND CROSSINGS TO MEET CURRENT ADA STANDARDS/ APWA STANDARDS.
                                                                                                                                                                        21.   ALL ELECTRICAL CONDUITS/LINES TO BE PVC SCH 40 OR BETTER.                                                     56.   UNSUITABLE MATERIAL, SUCH AS TOP SOIL, WEATHERED BED ROCK, ETC., SHALL BE REMOVED AS REQUIRED BY THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SOILS ENGINEER (AND/OR ENGINEERING GEOLOGIST, WHERE EMPLOYED) FROM ALL AREAS TO RECEIVE COMPACTED FILL OR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DRAINAGE STRUCTURES.                                                                                                 83.   PAYMENT FOR PAVEMENT WILL BE MADE ONLY FOR AREAS SHOWN ON PLANS. REPLACEMENT OF PAVEMENT WHICH IS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 BROKEN OR CUT DURING THE INSTALLATION OF THE WORK COVERED BY THESE GENERAL NOTES, AND WHICH LIES OUTSIDE OF
                                                                                                                                                                        22.  ALL GAS LINES TO BE HDPE WITH COPPER TRACER WIRE AND DETECTA TAPE. TERMINATE TRACER WIRE AT APPROVED                                                                                                                                SAID AREAS, SHALL BE INCLUDED IN THE CONTRACTOR'S UNIT PRICE FOR PAVEMENT, AND NO ADDITIONAL PAYMENT SHALL BE
                                                                                                                                                                        LOCATIONS.                                                                                                                                                                                                                               MADE FOR SUCH WORK.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            57.   NO TREES SHALL BE REMOVED OR DAMAGED WITHOUT SPECIFIC WRITTEN AUTHORIZATION FROM PROPERTY OWNER.

                                                                                                                                                                        23.   ALL GAS LINE TAPS, VALVES AND CAPS TO BE FUSED USING ELECTRO - FUSION TECHNOLOGY.                                                                                                                                                  84.        INSTALLATION OF STREET LIGHTS SHALL BE IN ACCORDANCE WITH CITY STANDARDS.
NOTE:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       58.  THE EXISTING TOPOGRAPHY ON THESE PLANS IS BASED ON A TOPOGRAPHIC SURVEY PERFORMED BY BENCHMARK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ENGINEERING AND LAND SURVEYING ON 08/29/2023 AND MAY HAVE BEEN MODIFIED SINCE THIS SURVEY WAS PERFORMED.
IN THE EVENT THAT THE CONSTRUCTION NOTES CONFLICT
                                                                                                                                                                        24.   ALL PHONE AND TV CONDUITS TO BE PVC SCH 40 OR BETTER.                                                                                                                                                                              85.  PRIOR TO FINAL ACCEPTANCE OF THE IMPROVEMENTS BUILT BY THESE PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS THE CONTRACTOR
WITH RESPONSIBLE DISTRICT OR AGENCY STANDARDS
NOTES AND SPECIFICATIONS, THE DISTRICT OR AGENCY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SHALL BE RESPONSIBLE TO COORDINATE WITH THE OWNER, CITY, AND POWER COMPANY TO HAVE THE ELECTRICAL SYSTEM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            59.   FILLS IN EXCESS OF 4 FEET IN THICKNESS AND BENEATH ALL FOUNDATIONS OR PAVEMENT SECTIONS SHALL BE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AND ALL STREET LIGHTS ENERGIZED.
STANDARD NOTES AND SPECIFICATIONS GOVERN.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   COMPACTED TO 95 PERCENT OF THE MAXIMUM DRY DENSITY AS DETERMINED BY THE ASTM D-1557 COMPACTION CRITERIA. ALL
                                                                                                                                                                        25.    NO GROUNDWATER OR DEBRIS TO BE ALLOWED TO ENTER THE NEW PIPE DURING CONSTRUCTION. THE OPEN END OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            OTHER STRUCTURAL FILL LESS THAN 4 FEET IN THICKNESS SHOULD BE COMPACTED TO AT LEAST 90 PERCENT OF THE ABOVE
                                                                                                                                                                        ALL PIPES IS TO BE COVERED AND EFFECTIVELY SEALED AT THE END OF EACH DAYS WORK.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CRITERIA. REFERENCE THE GEOTECHNCIAL REPORT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 86.  THE CONTRACTOR SHALL BE RESPONSIBLE FOR THE REMOVAL OF ALL STRIPING AND/OR PAVEMENT MARKINGS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 NECESSARY TO THE EXISTING STRIPING INTO FUTURE STRIPING. METHOD OF REMOVAL SHALL BE BY GRINDING OR
                                                                                                                                                                        26.  THE CONTRACTOR SHALL PROVIDE ALL SHORING, BRACING, SLOPING OR OTHER PROVISIONS NECESSARY TO PROTECT                                                                                                                                 SANDBLASTING.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            60. COMPACTION TESTING WILL BE ACCOMPLISHED BY THE CONTRACTOR, OR THE CONTRACTOR WILL HAVE SUCH TESTING
                                                                                                                                                                        WORKMEN FOR ALL AREAS TO BE EXCAVATED TO A DEPTH OF 4' OR MORE AND SHALL COMPLY WITH INDUSTRIAL COMMISSION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ACCOMPLISHED BY A SEPARATE CONTRACTOR. TEST RESULTS WILL BE SUBMITTED FOR REVIEW WITHIN 24 HOURS AFTER TEST.
                                                                                                                                                                        OF UTAH SAFETY ORDERS SECTION 68 - EXCAVATIONS, AND SECTION 69 - TRENCHES, ALONG WITH ANY LOCAL CODES OR
                                                                                                                                                                        ORDINANCES.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 87.        STRIPING AND PAVEMENT MARKINGS SHALL BE IN CONFORMANCE WITH MUTCD & APWA 32 17 23.
                   CAUTION NOTICE TO CONTRACTORS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            61.   CONTRACTOR TO SUBMIT PROCTOR AND/OR MARSHALL TEST DATA 24 HOURS PRIOR TO COMPACTION TESTS.
                                                                                                                                                                        27.    PRIOR TO OPENING AN EXCAVATION, EFFORT SHALL BE MADE TO DETERMINE WHETHER UNDERGROUND INSTALLATIONS;
THE CONTRACTOR IS SPECIFICALLY CAUTIONED THAT THE LOCATION AND/OR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                88.  DURING THE BIDDING PROCESS, CONTRACTOR TO REVIEW DESIGN SLOPES SHOWN FOR PAVEMENT AND WARRANTY THE
                                                                                                                                                                        I.E. SEWER, WATER, FUEL, ELECTRIC LINES, ETC., WILL BE ENCOUNTERED AND IF SO, WHERE SUCH UNDERGROUND
ELEVATION OF EXISTING UTILITIES AS SHOWN ON THESE PLANS ARE BASED ON                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PAVEMENT TO THE OWNER BASED UPON THE DESIGN SLOPES SHOWN HEREON. CONCERNS WITH SLOPES MUST BE BROUGHT
                                                                                                                                                                        INSTALLATIONS ARE LOCATED. WHEN THE EXCAVATION APPROACHES THE APPROXIMATE LOCATION OF SUCH AN INSTALLATION,         62.   STRAIGHT GRADE SHALL BE MAINTAINED BETWEEN CONTOUR LINES AND SPOT ELEVATIONS UNLESS OTHERWISE SHOWN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DURING THE BIDDING PROCESS.
RECORDS OF THE VARIOUS UTILITY COMPANIES AND, WHERE POSSIBLE,                                                                                                           THE EXACT LOCATION SHALL BE DETERMINED BY CAREFUL PROBING OR HAND DIGGING; AND, WHEN IT IS UNCOVERED,               ON PLANS.
MEASUREMENTS TAKEN IN THE FIELD. THE INFORMATION IS NOT TO BE RELIED ON AS                                                                                              ADEQUATE PROTECTION SHALL BE PROVIDED FOR THE EXISTING INSTALLATION. ALL KNOWN OWNERS OF UNDERGROUND
BEING EXACT OR COMPLETE. THE CONTRACTOR MUST CALL THE APPROPRIATE UTILITY                                                                                               FACILITIES IN THE AREA CONCERNED SHALL BE ADVISED OF PROPOSED WORK AT LEAST 48 HOURS PRIOR TO THE START OF
                                                                                                                                                                        ACTUAL EXCAVATION.                                                                                                                                                                                                                       89. IT IS THE INTENT ON THESE PLANS THAT ALL PAVEMENT SLOPE TO A CATCH BASIN, INLET BOX OR OUT INTO A STREET.
COMPANY AT LEAST 48 HOURS BEFORE ANY EXCAVATION TO REQUEST EXACT FIELD                                                                                                                                                                                                                      63.  CUT AND FILL SLOPES SHALL BE NO STEEPER THAN 2 HORIZONTAL TO 1 VERTICAL. ALL SLOPES IN ADJOINING STREETS,       CONTRACTOR TO VERIFY FINISH SPOT ELEVATIONS AND NOTIFY ENGINEER IF THERE ARE DISCREPANCIES THAT WOULD CAUSE
LOCATION OF UTILITIES. IT SHALL BE THE RESPONSIBILITY OF THE CONTRACTOR TO                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DRAINAGE CHANNELS, OR OTHER FACILITIES SHALL BE GRADED NO STEEPER THAN 2 TO 1 FOR CUT AND FILL.                      PUDDLING ON THE SITE.
RELOCATE ALL EXISTING UTILITIES WHICH CONFLICT WITH THE PROPOSED
IMPROVEMENTS SHOWN ON THE PLANS.                                                                                                                                        28. IT SHALL BE THE CONTRACTOR'S RESPONSIBILITY TO INSTALL PIPE OF ADEQUATE CLASSIFICATION WITH SUFFICIENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PROJECT NO.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2307141
                                                                                                                                                                        BEDDING TO MEET ALL REQUIREMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS FOR H-20 LOAD REQUIREMENTS.                                    64.  GRADES WITHIN ASPHALT PARKING AREAS SHALL BE CONSTRUCTED TO WITHIN 0.10 FEET OF THE DESIGN GRADE.
THE CONTRACTOR AGREES THAT HE SHALL ASSUME SOLE AND COMPLETE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                HOWEVER, THE CONTRACTOR SHALL MAINTAIN POSITIVE DRAINAGE IN ALL PAVEMENT AREAS AND ALONG ALL CURBS. ALL
RESPONSIBILITY FOR JOB SITE CONDITIONS DURING THE COURSE OF CONSTRUCTION                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CURBS SHALL BE BUILT IN ACCORDANCE TO THE PLAN. CURBS AND PAVEMENT AREAS WHICH ARE NOT INSTALLED PER PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                        29.   ACTUAL CONNECTIONS TO EXISTING WATER LINES WILL NOT BE PERMITTED PRIOR TO THE COMPLETION OF STERILIZATION     MUST BE REMOVED AND REPLACED AT THE CONTRACTORS EXPENSE.
OF THIS PROJECT, INCLUDING SAFETY OF ALL PERSONS AND PROPERTY: THAT THIS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GEN. NOTES
                                                                                                                                                                        AND TESTING OF NEW WATER MAINS. ALL EXISTING WATER VALVES TO BE OPERATED UNDER THE DIRECTION OF THE
REQUIREMENT SHALL APPLY CONTINUOUSLY AND NOT BE LIMITED TO THE NORMAL
                                                                                                                                                                        CITY/COUNTY PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT PERSONNEL ONLY.
WORKING HOURS; AND THE CONTRACTOR SHALL DEFEND, INDEMNIFY, AN HOLD THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            65.   THE CONTRACTOR IS RESPONSIBLE FOR PROVIDING HIS OWN ESTIMATE OF EARTHWORK QUANTITIES.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LEGEND &
OWNER AND THE ENGINEER HARMLESS FROM ANY AND ALL LIABILITY, REAL OR
ALLEGED, IN CONNECTION WITH THE PERFORMANCE OF WORK ON THIS PROJECT,                                                                                                    30.  ALL UNDERGROUND UTILITIES SHALL BE IN PLACE INSPECTED, TESTED, AND APPROVED BY AUTHORITIES HAVING

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ABBREV.
EXCEPTING FOR LIABILITY ARISING FROM SOLE NEGLIGENCE OF THE OWNER OR THE                                                                                                JURISDICTION PRIOR TO INSTALLATION OF CURB, GUTTER, SIDEWALK, AND STREET PAVING.                                    66.  WHERE NEW CURB AND GUTTER IS BEING CONSTRUCTED ADJACENT TO EXISTING ASPHALT OR CONCRETE PAVEMENT,
ENGINEER.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   THE FOLLOWING SHALL APPLY: PRIOR TO PLACEMENT OF ANY CONCRETE THE CONTRACTOR SHALL HAVE A LICENSE SURVEYOR
                                                                                                                                                                        31.    CONTRACTOR SHALL BE RESPONSIBLE FOR COORDINATION WITH UTILITY COMPANIES FOR THE INSTALLATION OF ALL NEW      VERIFY THE ELEVATION AND LOCATION OF THE EXISTING HARDSCAPE TIE-INS AS WELL AS THE CROSS SLOPE TO THE CURB AND
                                                                                                                                                                        AND THE REMOVAL, RELOCATION, AND/OR BURIAL OF ALL EXISTING DRY UTILITIES INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO POWER, GAS,   GUTTER FORMS, PRIOR TO PLACEMENT OF ANY CONCRETE THE CONTRACTOR SHALL HAVE A LICENSE SURVEYOR VERIFY THE
                                                                                                                                                                        AND COMMUNICATION LINES. IF THERE IS A CONFLICT WITH AN EXISTING DRY UTILITY THE CONTRACTOR SHALL COORDINATE        GRADE AND CROSS SLOPE OF THE CURB AND GUTTER FORMS, THE CONTRACTOR SHALL SUBMIT THE SLOPE AND GRADES TO

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CGN.01
                                                                                                                                                                        THE REMOVAL OR RELOCATION OF THE EXISTING UTILITY WITH THE RESPONSIBLE DISTRICT OR AGENCY. ALL WORK FOR DRY         THE ENGINEER FOR APPROVAL PRIOR TO PLACEMENT OF CONCRETE. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL NOTIFY THE ENGINEER
                                                                                                                                                                        UTILITIES SHALL BE COORDINATED WITH AND COMPLETED TO THE STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE RESPONSIBLE              IMMEDIATELY OF ANY SECTION WHICH DOES NOT CONFORM TO THE DESIGN OR TYPICAL CROSS SECTION. THE CONTRACTOR


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      6 OF 7
                                                                                                                                                                        DISTRICT OR AGENCY.                                                                                                 SHALL BE SOLELY RESPONSIBLE FOR CURB AND GUTTER POURS WITHOUT THE APPROVAL OF THE ENGINEER.
                                             SCALE:NTS
                                                         RHINOROCK CONCRETE WALL
                                                1
                                                SCALE:NTS
                                                              SIDEWALK PER SSL #231
                                                    2




                                                                                                                                  DRAWN BY                 No.   DATE                         DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                              FAC
                                                                                              BENCHMARK                           CHECKED BY               1   11/30/2023 REVISED PER CITY COMMENTS
                                                                                                                                              MCP
                                                                                                                                                           2     12/14/2023 REVISED PER UDOT COMMENTS
                                           SHELTER THE HOMELESS, INC                                                              FIELD CREW
                                                                                                                                              VP/CB
                             PROJECT NO.




                                                                                             ENGINEERING &                                                 3     03/06/2024 REVISED PER CITY COMMENTS
                                                                                                                                  DATE
                                                                                                                                              08/29/2023   4     04/08/2024 REVISED PER CITY COMMENTS
                                                                                            LAND SURVEYING                        DWG. FILE
                                                                                                                                            2307141_SITE   5     04/25/2024 REVISED PER OWNER COMMENTS
                                                                                             9138 SOUTH STATE STREET SUITE #100
         SHEET
                 DETAIL



CDT.01




                                                                     315 W. 3300 S.
7 OF 7




                                                                                                                                        0     0.5      1
                          2307141




                                                                                                                                                           6     08/29/2024 REVISED PER CITY COMMENTS
                                                                                               SANDY, UTAH 84070 (801) 542-7192
                                                                                                                                                               SCALE MEASURES 1-INCH ON FULL SIZE SHEETS
                                                               SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH          www.benchmarkcivil.com                                      ADJUST ACCORDINGLY FOR REDUCED SIZE SHEETS
