                                                                     AGENDA
                                                       PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
                                                            Thursday, August 1, 2024
                                                        South Salt Lake Council Chambers
                                                             220 East Morris Avenue

                    PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING AT 7:00 P.M.
                      Pledge of Allegiance:   Jeremy Carter
                      Approve Agenda:         Jeremy Carter

                    STAFF BUSINESS – INFORMATION ITEMS
                         1. Final Plat Approvals
 JONATHAN                       a. Jordan Rail Service – 2264 S 900 W
WEIDENHAMER
                                b. Bickley Park Plat – 2508 S 500 E
                         2. Scheduling
 COMMUNITY &                    a. August 15th
  ECONOMIC               3. Online Training
 DEVELOPMENT                    a. Utah Open & Public Meetings Acts Training
   DIRECTOR                     b. KnowBe4 Training

                    PLANNING COMMISSION BUSINESS
                      Approval of the July 11, 2024, Planning Commission Minutes
                      ACTION ITEM
None at this time
                    CONTINUING BUSINESS
                     None at this time

                    NEW BUSINESS
                     1. PUBLIC MEETING
                        An application for a Conditional Use Permit for a Category II Home Occupation, in-home Pet
                        Grooming Service located at 3245 South 540 East. The applicant is Ildefonso Ramos.
                        ACTION ITEM
                        Applicant: Ildefonso Ramos
                        Address:     3245 South 540 East

                      2. PUBLIC HEARING
                         A petition to the Planning Commission to forward a positive recommendation to the
                         South Salt Lake City Council for all or only portions of the ordinance amending Section
                         17.10.190 to allow exceptions to the requirement to relocate utilities underground.
                         ACTION ITEM
                         Applicant: South Salt Lake City


                    Join Zoom Webinar
                    Please click the link below to join the webinar:
                    https://zoom.us/j/94724281477 | Webinar ID: 947 2428 1477
 CHERIE WOOD
     MAYOR

220 E MORRIS AVE
    SUITE 200
SOUTH SALT LAKE
      UTAH
      84115
 O 801.483.6000
    SSLC.GOV          IN COMPLIANCE WITH THE AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT, INDIVIDUALS NEEDING AUXILIARY COMMUNICATIVE AIDS OR
MAYOR@SSLC.GOV        OTHER SERVICES FOR THIS MEETING SHOULD CONTACT ELIZA UNGRICHT, (801) 483-6013, GIVING AT LEAST 24 HOURS NOTICE.
                             PLANNING COMMISSION STAFF REPORT

MEETING DATE:   August 1, 2024
PROJECT NUMBER: C24-00004
REQUEST:        An application for a Conditional Use Permit for a Category II Home Occupation, in-
                home Pet Grooming Service.
ADDRESS:        3245 S 540 E
PARCEL NUMBER: 16-30-433-001-0000
PROPERTY OWNER: Delli Ram Gautam and Aasha Pun Gautam
APPLICANT:      Ildefonso Ramos
TYPE OF ITEM:   Administrative – Conditional Use Permit

SYNOPSIS:
On May 20, 2024, Ildefonso Ramos applied for a business license for a Category II Home Occupation to
run a pet grooming service from his home, which is located at 3245 S 540 E. His business will have
customers visiting the home by appointment only, with no more than one (1) customer dropping off a pet
at any given time.

The property provides ample off-street parking for customers. In addition to one parking space on site
is designated for customer pet drop-off.

The Planning Commission is the Land Use Authority on all Conditional Use Permit applications.




STAFF RECOMMENDATION:
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission move to approve, with conditions, the proposed
Conditional Use Permit, for a Category II Home Occupation, located at 3245 S 540 E. Staff’s
recommendation is based on upon its analysis and findings including below.

                EXISTING ZONING                                          PROPOSAL
                       R-1                                      Category II Home Occupation,
                                                                    Pet Grooming Service




                                                    1
     GENERAL INFORMATION:
                             PLANNING COMMISSION STAFF REPORT
Location:                        3245 S 540 E
Proposed Project Size:           0.13 Acres
Surrounding Land Use Districts:  North: R-1
                                 South: R-1
                                 East: R-1
                                 West: R-1

Figure 1: Site Plan




                                            2
Figure 2: Existing Site




     PLANNING COMMISSION AUTHORITY:

17.11.030. Land use authority designations.
Pursuant to state law, the following administrative land use authority designations are made:



   CONDITIONAL USE REVIEW STANDARD:

   A. Planning Commission. The Planning Commission is the land use authority on issues of: Subdivision
      and Subdivision Plat approval; vacating, altering or amending a Subdivision Plat; Conditional Use
      Permit applications; design review for Building Heights as established in this Title; design review for
      projects on Parcels where any portion of the Parcel abuts any residential district; and the issuance of
      a Building or demolition permit in a Historic and Landmark district.

Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-507(2) sets forth the following standard of review for conditional uses by stating:
    (a)

            (i) A land use authority shall approve a conditional use if reasonable conditions are proposed,
            or can be imposed, to mitigate the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed
            use in accordance with applicable standards.

            (ii) The requirement described in Subsection (2)(a)(i) to reasonably mitigate anticipated
            detrimental effects of the proposed conditional use does not require elimination of the
            detrimental effects.




                                                     3
     (b) If a land use authority proposes reasonable conditions on a proposed conditional use, the land use
     authority shall ensure that the conditions are stated on the record and reasonably relate to mitigating
     the anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use.

     (c) If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use cannot be
     substantially mitigated by the proposal or the imposition of reasonable conditions to achieve
     compliance with applicable standards, the land use authority may deny the conditional use.

      GENERAL PLAN CONSIDERATIONS:
Land Use and Neighborhoods Goal 1: Continue to welcome new residents and businesses into South Salt
Lake.

        Analysis: This home occupation will create another business in South Salt Lake.

      ORDINANCE ANALYSIS:


                     Ordinance                                    Finding                   Condition of
                                                                                             Approval
                                           Title 17 – Land Use
17.05.020 – General Conditional Use Standards

In reviewing an Application for a Conditional Use Permit, the land use authority shall consider whether the
application:

  A. Identifies the maximum intensity of the proposed Development and Use;
  B. Complies with all provisions of the Code; and
  C. Compared to Permitted Uses and Development within the district, substantially mitigates the adverse
  impacts that are reasonably anticipated from the magnitude and intensity of the Development and Use,
  as proposed considering the following:

   1. The size and location of the site.             The proposed home occupation
                                                     is located at 3245 S 540 E. The
                                                     site is approximately 0.13 Acres.
   2. Traffic generation, timing, and nature of      Business will not generate
      traffic impacts and the existing condition and significant traffic. Only one car
      capacity of the Streets in the area.           will be on site at a time and an
                                                     appointment will be required.
   3. Utility demand and available capacity,         Not Applicable
      including storm water retention.
   4. Emergency vehicle access and anticipated       Business is not anticipated to
      average and peak day demand.                   generate additional emergency
                                                     vehicle demand.



   5. Location and amount of off-Street parking.     The driveway accommodates
                                                     one parking stall for pet drop-
                                                     off. Off - Street parking holds 2
                                                     available.


                                                      4
6. Internal vehicular and pedestrian circulation Not Applicable
    system, including delivery vehicles, loading
    and unloading.
7. Fencing, Screening, and Landscaping to         Not Applicable
    separate the Conditional Use from adjoining
    property and Uses.
8. Building mass, bulk, design, and orientation, Not Applicable
    and the location of Buildings on the site
    including orientation to Buildings on
    adjoining Lots or Parcels.
9. Usable open space.                             Not Applicable
10. Signs and lighting.                           No additional exterior lighting
                                                  will be used. The applicant will
                                                  display a 2-square-foot sign on
                                                  the window.
11. Physical design and Compatibility with        Not Applicable
    surrounding structures in terms of mass,
    Scale, style, design, and architectural
    detailing.
12. Noise, vibration, odors, steam, or other      All business activities will be    The applicant will
    factors that might adversely affect people    contained inside the garage and conduct all business
    and property off-site.                        will not have an impact off-site. activity indoors as to
                                                                                     not create any
                                                                                     nuisance for
                                                                                     surrounding property
                                                                                     owners.
13. Control of delivery and service vehicles,     Not Applicable
    loading and unloading zones.
14. Generation and Screening of waste.            The home has existing trash bins The applicant must
                                                  and no toxic waste will be        obtain an additional
                                                  generated.                        trash bin to
                                                                                    accommodate the
                                                                                    accumulation of fur
                                                                                    and hair resulting
                                                                                    from pet grooming.
15. Recycling program and pickup areas.           The home’s existing recycling
                                                  bin will be used. No excessive
                                                  recyclables will be generated.
16. The potential adverse impacts arising from    No more than one client will be
    the conduct of patrons, guests, employees, on-site at any given time. All
    occupants, or their affiliates.               clients will schedule an
                                                  appointment.
17. The impacts of the Use on public property     Not Applicable
    and environmentally sensitive lands.
18. Hours of operation, delivery, and activity.   Monday through Saturday, 8:00
                                                  am - 5:00 pm. Clients will be
                                                  served by appointment only.
19. Special hazards arising from the Use or from Not Applicable
    its reasonably anticipated secondary effects,


                                                  5
       including its potential to attract criminal
       behavior.
   20. Demand for public infrastructure or services. Not Applicable
17.05.050 – Standards Applicable to all Conditional Uses
 A. Use must be compatible in intensity of Use,      The use is compatible with the
     Scale, and design with Permitted Uses in the    permitted uses of the district.
     district

 B. Must not compromise health, safety, or welfare The proposed use will not
    of persons employed within or use the           compromise community
    proposed development, those residing or         health, safety, or welfare.
    working in the vicinity of the proposed use, or
    property or improvements in the vicinity of the
    proposed Use or Development



 C. Not impose disproportionate burdens on the          The proposed use will not
    citizens of the city.                               impose disproportionate
                                                        burdens on the citizens of the
                                                        city.
 17.05.040 - Conditional Uses with Specific Standards.
           K. Home Occupation, Category II.
                  a. Category II Home Occupations must be clearly incidental and subordinate to the Primary
                      Use of the Dwelling for residential purposes and shall not change the character of the
                      Dwelling or the neighborhood in which it is located. If at any time it is determined that a
                      Home Occupation has altered the character of a Dwelling or neighborhood, the Home
                      Occupation license will be revoked, and the character of the Dwelling must be restored.
 i. A Home Occupation that changes the outside          The proposed use will not
       appearance of the Dwelling, architecturally or change the outside of the
       otherwise, to accommodate the Home               appearance of the Dwelling. All
       Occupation Use on the property is prohibited. business will be conducted
                                                        inside the garage.
 ii. A Home Occupation may include the sale of          The applicant expects to serve
       goods produced on the premises and goods no more than six (6) customers
       produced elsewhere as long as goods are not per day, with no more than one
       displayed where they may be seen from the        (1) customer per hour. All clients
       outside of the property and as long as the sale are required to schedule an
       of goods are limited to no more than two (2)     appointment.
       customers per hour.
 iii. A Home Occupation shall not occupy more than The business will only be
       twenty (20) percent of the Dwelling's Floor      conducted in the applicant’s
       Area.                                            garage, attached to the
                                                        Dwelling.
 iv. Except for an enclosed outdoor play area for       The proposed use will not utilize All animals must be
       Child Care, a Home Occupation shall not          any yard area. All business will on a leash at all times
       involve the use of any yard area or activity     be conducted in the garage.        if frequenting the yard
       outside a Building.                                                                 area. The applicant
                                                                                           must comply with
                                                                                           13.72.020(D)--small
                                                                                           animal waste material

                                                        6
                                                                                  must be dry and
                                                                                  mixed with sand,
                                                                                  sawdust, commercial
                                                                                  pet litter, or similar
                                                                                  absorptive material,
                                                                                  and double wrapped
                                                                                  in paper or placed in
                                                                                  a separate plastic bag
                                                                                  before being placed
                                                                                  in a refuse container
                                                                                  for disposal.
v. An Accessory Structure separate from the            Not Applicable
      Dwelling may be used for a Home Occupation
      as long as: (i) the Accessory Structure remains
      incidental and subordinate to the Dwelling; (ii)
      no more than twenty-five (25) percent of the
      Floor Area of the Accessory Structure is used
      for the Home Occupation; and (iii) the land use
      authority approves the Use of the Accessory
      Structure for the Home Occupation. Home
      garden produce sales shall follow the
      requirements in Subsection (1)(b).
vi. No employee, other than one living at the          Both applicants reside in the
      Dwelling, is allowed at the Dwelling for any     Dwelling. No outside employees
      business purpose.                                are involved.
vii. All signs shall meet the requirements of          Not applicable
      Chapter 17.08 of this Code.
viii. Explosive or combustible materials shall not be Not applicable
      stored for a Home Occupation.
ix. Home Occupations shall not disturb the peace All business activities will be
      and quiet of the neighborhood with noise,        contained inside the garage and
      vehicles, odor, dust, vibrations, parking,       will not have an impact off-site.
      obstructions, or other matters related to the
      business.
x. Yard and garage sales associated with a Home Not applicable
      Occupation are prohibited.
xi. Home Occupations shall only be conducted           Monday through Saturday, 8:00
      between the hours of seven (7) a.m. and eight am - 5:00 pm.
      (8) p.m.
xii. Home Occupations shall comply with all            Not applicable
      pertinent City, county, and state regulations,
      including business license regulations. Home
      Occupation licenses may be revoked upon any
      valid unresolved complaint. Inspections by the
      City may occur as necessary to assure
      conformance with conditions and regulations.
xiii. Home Occupation shall meet all licensing         Not applicable
      requirements of the City, county, and state.
17.05.020(C)- The following Category II Home Occupation shall meet the standards and conditions listed
below.


                                                  7
iv. Pet Grooming Services, limited to two (2) animals The proposed use will have no
on-site at any one time; or                           more than two animals on-site at
                                                      any one time.
17.05.100 – Building Permits
  A. Issuance of a Conditional Use Permit does not The applicant does not propose
      excuse an Applicant from applying for and       any work that would require a
      obtaining a Building Permit.                    building permit.
17.06.040 – General Site Development Standards
     1. The proposed Development is on a legal Lot. The subject property is a legal
                                                      lot of the Creek Meadows PH 4
                                                      Revision Subdivision.
     2. All required curb and gutter must be          Required curb and gutter exists
        installed                                     at the site.
     3. All underground utilities located or access   Adequate utility service exists at
        way surface are installed and accepted        the site.
     4. Fire hydrants are fully operational           The applicant will secure Fire
                                                      Marshal approval as part of the
                                                      business license approval
                                                      process.
     5. Streets and access ways                       The subject property is accessed
                                                      from 540 E.
     6. Continuous access to the area                 Continuous access to the area is
                                                      ensured through the adjacent
                                                      public right-of-way.



17.08.320 – SIGN REGULATIONS - Residential Districts
   A. All Signs shall comply with the specifications A small sign will be hung on the The applicant must
       of the specific type as found in this Article or window with verbiage indicating obtain a sign permit
       elsewhere in this Chapter.                       appointments only, no walk-ins. for any sign related to
                                                                                        business activities.
   B. One civic Sign is not to exceed sixteen (16) Not Applicable
       square feet in the Sign Area.
   C. Development/construction/Subdivision              Not Applicable
       Signs, as allowed in this Chapter.
   D. One residential Sign is not to exceed two         Not Applicable
       square feet in area for the purpose of
       identifying the address and occupants of the
       residence.
   E. Each Multi-Family Residential Use shall be        Not Applicable
       allowed one Sign per Street Frontage for the
       purpose of identifying the name and address
       of the Use to which it is appurtenant. Said
       Sign shall not exceed six feet in height above
       ground level, shall not exceed ten square
       feet per Sign face with a maximum total Sign
       Area of fifteen (15) square feet and shall be
       set back a minimum of fifteen (15) feet.


                                                       8
   F. Signs described above must be located on Not Applicable
      the property to which they pertain.
   G. Other special Use Signs as specifically          Not Applicable
      allowed in this Chapter. Low profile
      identification Signs may be allowed in
      residential districts only as a special Use Sign
      subject to the provision therein.
   H. Heights. Unless specifically allowed             Not Applicable
      otherwise, no Sign in a residential district
      may exceed a height of six feet.
   I. Home Occupation Signs. One Sign not              The applicant will place a small   The applicant may
      exceeding two square feet in area may be         sign on the home’s front           only have one sign on
      allowed for a permitted Home Occupation. window.                                    the property related
      Such Sign must be placed on or against the                                          to business activities.
      Dwelling.                                                                           Sign may not exceed
                                                                                          two (2) square feet in
                                                                                          area. The sign must
                                                                                          be located on or
                                                                                          against the home.




K. Illumination. Illuminated Signs in residential      The proposed sign will not be
districts shall only be allowed as a special exception illuminated.
and are discouraged except for unusual
circumstances.
13.72.020 - Household waste collection
   A. The city or its contractor will provide for the Not Applicable
       weekly curbside collection of household
       waste as further defined in this section. Such
       waste shall be collected from a "residential
       dwelling" or a dwelling that has been issued
       a "special permit." The city or its contractor
       may also provide for the regular curbside
       collection of glass recycling, as described in
       Section 13.72.400.
   B. Only household waste and recycling                                                  The applicant may
       containers provided by the city or its                                             obtain an additional
       contractor shall be allowed for curbside                                           trash bin to
       household waste collection and recyclable                                          accommodate the
       waste collection. The city will provide up to                                      accumulation of
       one additional household waste container to                                        excess fur and hair
       an owner-occupied dwelling for a fee as                                            resulting from pet
       described in the consolidated fee schedule.                                        grooming.
       Household waste and recycling containers
       shall be of different colors. In the event any
       container which does not conform to the
       provisions of this section is set out for
       collection, the city or its contractor shall have
       the authority to deny collection services for
       such container.
                                                         9
C. The following materials shall not be set out Not Applicable
   for collection whether placed in a container
   or otherwise:
   1. Highly flammable or explosive materials;
   2. Hazardous or radioactive waste materials;
   3. Hot ashes, cinders, clinkers, or stove
        ashes which could ignite other refuse;
   4. Dead animals;
   5. Commercial and industrial refuse;
   6. Bulky waste (unless during designated
        annual or semi-annual cleanup, see
        Section 13.72.310);
   7. Septic tank waste or holding tank waste
        from recreational vehicles or travel
        trailers;
   8. Tires;
   9. Batteries;
   10. Oils, paint, paint thinner;
   11. These restrictions apply equally to the
        use of recyclable containers in addition to
        items described in subsection E
D. Refuse Materials Requiring Special
   Preparation. Small animal waste material
   must be dry and mixed with sand, sawdust,
   commercial pet litter, or similar absorptive
   material, and double wrapped in paper or
   placed in a separate plastic bag before being
   placed in a refuse container for disposal.
E. Waste unacceptable for traditional recycling Not Applicable
   shall not be placed for collection in a
   recyclable waste container.
F. The following fees are imposed for collection Not Applicable
   of household waste in the amounts set forth
   in the consolidated fee schedule:
G. In its discretion, the city may discontinue      Not Applicable
   household waste or recyclable waste
   collection services to any residential
   dwelling, or dwelling receiving collection
   service by special permit, if it has probable
   cause to believe that the provisions of this
   chapter have been violated. Furthermore, the
   city may discontinue these services to any
   residential dwelling, or dwelling receiving
   services by special permit, that is delinquent
   in the payment of any other fee or other sum
   owing to the city.
H. When an account is a delinquent account,         Not Applicable
   the city shall issue a written late notice to
   inform the account holder of the delinquent
   status and the risk of termination of service. A
   late notice or reminder notice must include a
   statement that the account is delinquent, that

                                                  10
       it is at risk of termination and the date upon
       which the delinquent balance must be paid
       to avoid termination.
   I. At least ten calendar days prior to a            Not Applicable
       proposed termination of household waste or
       recyclable waste service, the city shall give
       written notice of termination to the account
       holder. The ten-day time period is computed
       from the date the notice is postmarked. The
       notice shall be given first class mail or
       delivery to the premises and shall contain a
       summary of the specific steps that may be
       taken by the customer to avoid termination
       (to be printed in a conspicuous fashion); and
       the date on which payment arrangements
       must be made to avoid termination.
   J. At least forty-eight (48) hours prior to the     Not Applicable
       time when termination of service is
       scheduled, the city shall notify the account
       holder by leaving a copy of the notice
       attached to the entrance of the property at
       which service is provided.1.If termination of
       service is not accomplished within fifteen (15)
       days following the forty-eight (48) hour
       notice, the utility will follow the above
       procedures for another forty-eight (48) hour
       notice.2.The city shall mail duplicate copies
       of the ten-day termination notice to the
       owner of the property.
   K. Upon expiration of the notice of termination, Not Applicable
       the city may terminate household waste and
       recyclable waste service by retrieving the
       waste containers.
   L. Restrictions upon Termination Practices. The Not Applicable
       city shall not employ termination practices
       other than those set forth in this chapter. The
       city shall have the right to employ or pursue
       all legal methods to ensure collection of
       obligations due it.
6.12.020 - Removal of animal waste.
   A. The owner or custodian of any animal shall                        The applicant will
       remove any feces left by said animal on any                      remove all feces left
       sidewalk, gutter, street or other public area.                   by animals on
                                                                        sidewalks, gutters,
                                                                        streets or other public
                                                                        areas.
   B. The owner or custodian of an animal shall                         The applicant will
      also remove any feces left by said animal on                      keep all animals on a
      any private property for which consent has                        leash in all yard areas
      not been given to allow the leaving of feces.                     to keep animals from
      A person is subject to nuisance animal                            going onto
      penalties if feces are not promptly removed                       neighboring
                                                      11
       by the owner or custodian on more than one                                    properties. Any feces
       occasion.                                                                     left by animals must
                                                                                     be removed and
                                                                                     disposed of in
                                                                                     accordance with
                                                                                     13.72.020D.
   C. The provisions of this section shall not apply Not applicable
       to a guide dog, hearing dog, or other service
       dog accompanying any person with a
       disability, if such animal is actually being
       used by a disabled person.
6.12.040 - Animals running at large.
   A. It is unlawful for the owner or another                                        All animals must be
       responsible person having charge, care,                                       on a leash at all times
       custody or control of an animal to allow such                                 if frequenting the yard
       animal at any time to run at large.                                           area of the property.

   B. The owner or person charged with                                               All animals must be
      responsibility of an animal found running                                      on a leash at all times
      loose shall be strictly liable for any property                                if frequenting the yard
      damage or injury to a person or another                                        area of the property.
      animal caused by such animal running at
      large, regardless of the precautions taken to
      prevent the escape of the animal and
      regardless of whether the person knows that
      the animal is running at large.
   C. Any animal shall be considered running at                                      All animals must be
      large if it is found on public property or the                                 on a leash at all times
      property of another and is not under                                           if frequenting the yard
      restraint.                                                                     area of the property.
   D. The provisions of this section do not apply to Not applicable
      dogs in a designated off-leash area of a
      public or private park.


      STAFF RECOMMENDATION:
Staff recommends the Planning Commission move to approve the application submitted by Ildefonso
Ramos for a Category II Home Occupation at 3245 S 540 E with the proposed conditions of approval based
on the following finds of fact and conclusions of law:


Findings of Fact:

    1. On May 20, 2024, the applicant applied for a Conditional Use Permit for a Category II Home
       Occupation for the dwelling at 3245 S 540 E.

    2. The purpose of the application is to permit the lawful operation of a pet grooming business at the
       subject property.

    3. A home occupation that involves customers and clients visiting the dwelling would be classified as
       a Category II Home Occupation per Title 17’s Land Use Matrix.


                                                    12
   4. SSLC Code Section 17.01 defines a Home Occupation, Category II as “any business carried on
      entirely within a Dwelling by occupants of such Dwelling that is clearly incidental and secondary to
      the Residential Use of the Dwelling, has no outside impacts on the neighborhood in which it is
      located, and does not change the character of the Dwelling or the neighborhood in which it is
      located. Home Occupation, Category II includes clients/customers going to the Dwelling.”

   5. The previous use of the subject property was a single-family dwelling without a Home Occupation
      as a secondary use.

   6. Redevelopment of a property requires all current municipal codes to apply to the proposal,
      including development standards, use standards, and design standards.

   7. The subject property is in the R-1 land use district.

   8. SSLC Code Section 17.03, classifies a Home Occupation, Category II as a Conditional Use in the R-
      1 land use district, triggering the need for a Conditional Use Permit.

   9. The Planning Commission is the land use authority over all Conditional Use Permits.

   10. The subject property is 0.13 Acres in size.

   11. The subject property is a legally subdivided lot.

   12. SSLC Code Section 17.06.040 requires, prior to issuance of a Building Permit, that all new
       Development activity be on a legal Lot.

   13. The subject property has vehicular and pedestrian access along 540 E.

   14. The subject property has 82 feet of frontage along 540 E.

Conclusions of Law:

   1.   The use, as specifically conditioned below, is consistent with the South Salt Lake City General Plan.

   2.   The use, as specifically conditioned below, is compatible in use, scale, and design with allowed
        uses in the R-1 land use district.

   3.   The use, as specifically conditioned below, does not compromise the health, safety, or welfare of
        persons employed within or using the proposed development; nor those residing or working in
        the vicinity of the proposed use or development; nor Property or improvements in the vicinity of
        the proposed use or development.

   4.   The use, as specifically conditioned below, does not impose disproportionate burdens on the
        citizens of the city.

Conditions of Approval:

   1. The applicant shall retain one (1) off-street parking stall for client use.

   2. The applicant shall conduct all business activity indoors as to not create any nuisance for
      surrounding property owners.

   3. The applicant shall ensure customer traffic is by appointment only, with no walk-ins allowed.
                                                       13
   4. The applicant shall be limited to two (2) individual customers on the premises at a time.

   5. The applicant may not allow more than (2) customer vehicles to be parked on-site at any time.

   6. The applicant shall limit its service to no more than two (2) animals on-site at any one time.

   7. All animals must be on a leash at all times if frequenting the yard area of the property.

   8. The applicant shall ensure off-street parking for the Residential Use is not interrupted for the
      Home Occupation.

   9. The applicant shall ensure that if a commercial vehicle is used in conjunction with a Home
      Occupation, it must (1) be parked off-Street on an approved Impervious Surface; (2) not
      exceed one ton in capacity; and (3) not be operated from the property between the hours of
      eight p.m. (8 p.m.) until seven a.m. (7 a.m.). Should a commercial vehicle create a nuisance
      regarding parking, noise, odor, hazardous substances, etc., the vehicle may be barred from
      the residential district by action of the Planning Commission.

   10. The applicant shall conduct business within the hours of 8:00 am to 5:00 pm.

   11. The applicant shall ensure that any waste generated by the business is properly disposed of as
       not to impact the surrounding property owners. The applicant shall ensure that small animal
       waste material is dry and mixed with sand, sawdust, commercial pet litter, or similar absorptive
       material, and double wrapped in paper or placed in a separate plastic bag before being
       placed in a refuse container for disposal.

   12. The applicant may obtain an additional trash bin to accommodate the accumulation of excess
       fur and hair resulting from pet grooming.

   13. The applicant must comply with the general provisions of Title 6 and with all other federal, state
       and local laws.

   14. The applicant must obtain a sign permit for any sign related to business activities.

   15. The applicant’ business may not occupy more than twenty (20) percent of the Dwelling's Floor
       Area.

   16. Yard and garage sales associated with a Home Occupation are prohibited.

   17. The applicant may only have one sign on the property related to business activities. The sign
       may not exceed two (2) square feet in area and must be located on or against the home.

   18. The applicant shall submit to inspections by the City as necessary to assure conformance with
       the conditions and regulations of the Home Occupation.

   19. The applicant must comply with all pertinent City, county, and state regulations, including
       business license regulations. Home Occupation licenses may be revoked upon any valid
       unresolved complaint. Inspections by the City may occur as necessary to assure conformance
       with conditions and regulations.

        PLANNING COMMISSION OPTIONS:
Option 1: Approval
Move to approve the application submitted by Ildefonso Ramos for a Conditional Use Permit to open
a Category II Home Occupation at 3245 S 540 E, based on the Findings and Conclusions included in
                                                      14
the staff report.


Option 2: Denial
Move to deny the application submitted by Ildefonso Ramos for a Conditional Use Permit to open a
Category II Home Occupation at 3245 S 540 E , based on the reasoning set forth on the record.

Option 3: Continuance
Move to table the decision on the application submitted by Ildefonso Ramos for a Conditional Use Permit
to open a Category II Home Occupation at 3245 S 540 E , to a date certain to allow the Applicant and Staff
time to respond to specific inquiries or concerns raised by the Planning Commission, or to allow the Planning
Commission more time to consider the proposal.




Attachments:
     1. Site Plan
     2. Conditional Use Permit: C24-00004




                                                     15
WHEN RECORDED PLEASE RETURN TO:

SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY
220 E. MORRIS AVE SUITE 200 SOUTH
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84115

                                        CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT

Location: 3245 S 540 E
Use: Category II Home Occupation, In-home Pet Grooming Service
Zone: R-1
APN: 16-30-433-001-0000
Legal Description: LOT 18, CREEKE MEADOWS PH 4 REVISION
Fee Title Owner: Bala & Tara, LLC
File Number: C24-00004
Date: August 1, 2024


Permit Issued to:       My Best Friend Utah, LLC
                        3245 S 540 E
                        SSL, Utah 84115


Findings of Fact:

   1. On May 20, 2024, the applicant applied for a Conditional Use Permit for a Category II Home
      Occupation for the dwelling at 3245 S 540 E.

   2. The purpose of the application is to permit the lawful operation of a pet grooming business at the
      subject property.

   3. A home occupation that involves customers and clients visiting the dwelling would be classified as a
      Category II Home Occupation per Title 17’s Land Use Matrix.

   4. SSLC Code Section 17.01 defines a Home Occupation, Category II as “any business carried on entirely
      within a Dwelling by occupants of such Dwelling that is clearly incidental and secondary to the
      Residential Use of the Dwelling, has no outside impacts on the neighborhood in which it is located,
      and does not change the character of the Dwelling or the neighborhood in which it is located. Home
      Occupation, Category II includes clients/customers going to the Dwelling.”

   5. The previous use of the subject property was a single-family dwelling without a Home Occupation as
      a secondary use.

   6. Redevelopment of a property requires all current municipal codes to apply to the proposal, including
      development standards, use standards, and design standards.

   7. The subject property is in the R-1 land use district.

   8. SSLC Code Section 17.03, classifies a Home Occupation, Category II as a Conditional Use in the R-1


                                                      1
      land use district, triggering the need for a Conditional Use Permit.

  9. The Planning Commission is the land use authority over all Conditional Use Permits.

  10. The subject property is 0.13 Acres in size.

  11. The subject property is a legally subdivided lot.

  12. SSLC Code Section 17.06.040 requires, prior to issuance of a Building Permit, that all new
      Development activity be on a legal Lot.

  13. The subject property has vehicular and pedestrian access along 540 E.

  14. The subject property has 82 feet of frontage along 540 E.




Conclusions of Law:

    1. The use, as specifically conditioned below, is consistent with the South Salt Lake City General Plan.

    2. The use, as specifically conditioned below, is compatible in use, scale, and design with allowed uses
        in the R-1 land use district.

    3. The use, as specifically conditioned below, does not compromise the health, safety, or welfare of
        persons employed within or using the proposed development; nor those residing or working in the
        vicinity of the proposed use or development; nor Property or improvements in the vicinity of the
        proposed use or development.

    4. The use, as specifically conditioned below, does not impose disproportionate burdens on the
        citizens of the city.


Conditions of Approval:

    1. The applicant shall retain one (1) off-street parking stall for client use.

    2. The applicant shall conduct all business activity indoors as to not create any nuisance for
       surrounding property owners.


    3. The applicant shall ensure customer traffic is by appointment only, with no walk-ins allowed.

    4. The applicant shall be limited to two (2) individual customers on the premises at a time.

    5. The applicant may not allow more than (2) customer vehicles to be parked on-site at any time.




                                                       2
6. The applicant shall limit its service to no more than two (2) animals on-site at any one time.


7. All animals must be on a leash at all times if frequenting the yard area of the property.

8. The applicant shall ensure off-street parking for the Residential Use is not interrupted for the
   Home Occupation.


9. The applicant shall ensure that if a commercial vehicle is used in conjunction with a Home
   Occupation, it must (1) be parked off-Street on an approved Impervious Surface; (2) not
   exceed one ton in capacity; and (3) not be operated from the property between the hours of
   eight p.m. (8 p.m.) until seven a.m. (7 a.m.). Should a commercial vehicle create a nuisance
   regarding parking, noise, odor, hazardous substances, etc., the vehicle may be barred from
   the residential district by action of the Planning Commission.


10. The applicant shall conduct business within the hours of 8:00 am to 5:00 pm.

11. The applicant shall ensure that any waste generated by the business is properly disposed of
    as not to impact the surrounding property owners. The applicant shall ensure that small
    animal waste material is dry and mixed with sand, sawdust, commercial pet litter, or similar
    absorptive material, and double wrapped in paper or placed in a separate plastic bag before
    being placed in a refuse container for disposal.


12. The applicant may obtain an additional trash bin to accommodate the accumulation of excess
    fur and hair resulting from pet grooming.


13. The applicant must comply with the general provisions of Title 6 and with all other federal,
    state and local laws.


14. The applicant must obtain a sign permit for any sign related to business activities.

15. The applicant’ business may not occupy more than twenty (20) percent of the Dwelling's Floor
    Area.


16. Yard and garage sales associated with a Home Occupation are prohibited.


17. The applicant may only have one sign on the property related to business activities. The sign
    may not exceed two (2) square feet in area and must be located on or against the home.



18. The applicant shall submit to inspections by the City as necessary to assure conformance with
    the conditions and regulations of the Home Occupation.




                                                 3
        19. The applicant must comply with all pertinent City, county, and state regulations, including
            business license regulations. Home Occupation licenses may be revoked upon any valid
            unresolved complaint. Inspections by the City may occur as necessary to assure conformance
            with conditions and regulations.




Exhibits (available on file with South Salt Lake City Community Development Department):


EXHIBIT A: Site Plan
EXHIBIT B: Staff Report




FOR SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY:                                    FOR THE OWNER/APPLICANT:



______________________                                      __________________________________
Planning Commission Chair                                   Ildefonso Ramos /My Best Friend Utah LLC



________________________________________________

Community Development




                                                       4
                                  PLANNING COMMISSION STAFF REPORT
Meeting Date:         August 1, 2024
Request:              A petition to the Planning Commission to forward a positive recommendation to the
                      South Salt Lake City Council for all or only portions of the ordinance amending Section
                      17.10.190 to allow exceptions to the requirement to relocate utilities underground.
Applicant:            South Salt Lake City
Type of item:         Legislative – Code Amendment

 RECOMMENDATIONS:
 Staff recommends the Planning Commission forward a positive recommendation of approval to the City
 Council for all or only portions of the ordinance amending Section 17.10.190 of the South Salt Lake City
 Municipal Code (“Title 17”) to allow exceptions to the requirement to relocate utilities underground.

 SYNOPSIS:
 Section 17.10.190 of the South Salt Lake City Municipal Code outlines the requirements for locating utilities
 during the Subdivision and Platting process. In some instances, undergrounding results in an undue
 financial burden on City resources. This amendment will clarify when the criteria for a property owner to
 relocate utilities underground will not be required.

 The Planning Commission is the recommending body for amendments to land use ordinances and the City
 Council is the land use authority for amendments to land use ordinances.

 Staff has provided a summary of proposed amendments below. For the full amendment to Title 17, please
 see the attachments provided herein that include a full-redlined ordinance.


 CODE SECTIONS                      HIGHLIGHT OF CHANGES
 Amending Chapter 17.10             o Exceptions to Relocation of Utilities:
 Subdivision and Platting              17.10.190
                                         Allow city-owned properties to be exempt from the
                                            requirements of locating utilities underground.
                                         Proposed exceptions:
                                                  Overhead high-voltage transmission lines
                                                   City-owned property
                                                   Historic and Landmark District


STAFF RECOMMENDATION:

Staff recommends the Planning Commission consider forwarding a positive recommendation to the City
Council to approve all or only portions of the ordinance amending Section 17.10.190 of the South Salt Lake
City Municipal Code to allow exceptions to the requirement to relocate utilities underground.

                                                      1
PLANNING COMMISSION AUTHORITY:

 17.11.010. Establishment and Duties of Planning Commission.
    K. Responsibilities.
        1. The Planning Commission makes recommendations to the City Council for:
              a. The general plan and amendments to the general plan;
              b. The Land Use Map, and amendments to the Land Use Map;
              c. Amendments to land use ordinances;
              d. Proposed Application processes and the delegation of power under the land use
                  ordinance.

PLANNING COMMISSION REVIEW:

Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-502. Preparation and adoption of land use regulation states:
      1. A planning commission shall:
              a. provide notice as required by Subsection 10-9a-205(1)(a) and, if applicable, Subsection 10-
              9a-205(4);
              b. hold a public hearing on a proposed land use regulation;
              c. if applicable, consider each written objection filed in accordance with Subsection 10-9a-
              205(4) prior to the public hearing; and
              d.       i. review and recommend to the legislative body a proposed land use regulation that
                       represents the planning commission's recommendation for regulating the use and
                       development of land within all or any part of the area of the municipality; and
                       ii. forward to the legislative body all objections filed in accordance with
                       Subsection 10-9a-205(4).

ANALYSIS:

This ordinance aims to allow exceptions to the requirement to relocate utilities underground for the
following reasons:
    • Better serves the taxpayers of South Salt Lake by alleviating the financial burden associated with
       undergrounding utilities on City-owned property. Instead, taxpayer money can be directed towards
       more impactful purposes, such as enhancing public safety.
    • Ensures that future City projects associated with Historic and Landmark sites avoid unnecessary
       delays.
    • Lessens the significant expense imposed on development projects when overhead, high-voltage
       transmission lines (lines intended to carry power between generators and substations) cross over a
       property.

PLANNING COMMISSION OPTIONS:

Option 1: Approval
   Move to forward a recommendation of approval of all or only portions to the City Council for an ordinance
   amending Section 17.10.190 of the South Salt Lake City Municipal Code to allow exceptions to the
   requirement to relocate utilities underground.



                                                     2
Option 2: Recommendation of Denial
   Move to forward a recommendation of denial of an ordinance amending Section 17.10.190 of the South
   Salt Lake City Municipal Code to allow exceptions to the requirement to relocate utilities underground.

Option 3: Continuance
   Move to table an ordinance amending Section 17.10.190 of the South Salt Lake City Municipal Code to
   allow exceptions to the requirement to relocate utilities underground to a date certain to allow Staff time
   to respond to specific inquiries or concerns raised by the Planning Commission or to allow the Planning
   Commission more time to consider the proposal.

Attachments:
   1. Redlined Ordinance Amendment




                                                      3
                              ORDINANCE NO. 2024-___

AN ORDINANCE OF THE SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL AMENDING §
17.10.190 OF THE SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY MUNICIPAL CODE TO ALLOW
EXCEPTIONS FOR UNDERGROUND SERVICE CONNECTIONS FOR EXISTING
UTILITIES.

      WHEREAS, the South Salt Lake City Council (“City Council”) is authorized to enact
and amend ordinances governing the City of South Salt Lake (“City”); and

      WHEREAS, the City Council is authorized by law to enact, amend, and repeal
ordinances regulating land use and development within the City; and

       WHEREAS, City Staff has proposed changes to the Title 17 Land Use and
Development section of the South Salt Lake City Municipal Code to address instances
where there is a benefit to the City to exempt certain properties and projects from the
requirement to underground existing utilities as required by Title 17; and

       WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a duly noticed public hearing, pursuant
to Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-503 and South Salt Lake City Municipal Code § 17.11.060 on
August 1, 2024, and the public had an opportunity to comment on the proposed
amendments to the City’s land use regulations; and

       WHEREAS, the Planning Commission found that the proposed amendments are
in the best interests of the City and forwarded a recommendation of approval to the City
Council; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council met at a regular session on August 14, 2024, to
review, among other things, the proposed amendments, the Planning Commission’s
recommendation, and the objections, if any, forwarded for the Council’s review and finds
that the proposed amendments are beneficial to the City, its residents, and business
members; and

      WHEREAS, the City Council hereby determines that the amendments to §
17.10.190 of the South Salt Lake City Municipal Code align with the City’s interests in
promoting prosperity, and economic and orderly growth.

NOW, THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of the City of South Salt Lake
as follows:

      SECTION I. Enactment. City of South Salt Lake Municipal Code Title 17 Land Use
and Development, § 17.10.190 Utilities is hereby amended as outlined in Exhibit A.

       SECTION II. Severability. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or
portion of this ordinance is, for any reason, held invalid or unconstitutional by any court
of competent jurisdiction, such provision shall be deemed a separate, distinct, and


                                         Page 1 of 5
independent provision, and such holding shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portions of this ordinance.

       SECTION III. Conflict with Existing Ordinances, Resolutions, or Policies. To
the extent that any ordinance, resolution, or policy of the City of South Salt Lake conflicts
with the provisions of this ordinance, this ordinance shall prevail.

       SECTION IV. Effective Date. This ordinance shall become effective upon the
Mayor’s signature and publication, or after fifteen (15) days or transmission to the Office
of the Mayor if neither approved nor disapproved by the Mayor, and thereafter,
publication.

                            (Signatures appear on next page.)




                                          Page 2 of 5
Dated this _____day of_______2024.


                                                      BY THE CITY COUNCIL:


                                                      ___________________________________
                                                      Sharla Bynum, Council Chair

ATTEST:


_____________________________________
Ariel Andrus, City Recorder


City Council Vote as Recorded:
Huff
Thomas
Bynum
Mitchell
Pinkney
Sanchez
Williams


Transmitted to the Mayor’s office on this   day of                                  2024.



       Ariel Andrus, City Recorder


MAYOR’S ACTION:


       Dated this _____day of                               , 2024.



                                            Cherie Wood, Mayor
ATTEST:


Ariel Andrus, City Recorder




                                            Page 3 of 5
                            Chapter 17.10 SUBDIVISION AND PLATTING
Sections:

17.10.190 Utilities
A.     Location. Utility facilities including, but not limited to, gas, fiber, electric power, fiber, telephone, and cable
       TV, shall be located underground in new Subdivisions wherever underground location does not violate safety
       standards of the particular utility. Underground service connections for water and sewer shall be installed to
       the Street Property Line of each plated Lot at the expense of the Applicant, as shall adequate casings or
       conduits for fiber and all other underground utilities.
        1.   The following are exempt from the requirement to relocate utilities underground:
             a.   All City-owned property and any property zoned either Historic and Landmark District or City
                  Facility.
             b.   Any overhead transmission lines intended to carry high-voltage power between generators and
                  substations.
B.     Easements.
       1.    Easements shall be provided for private and municipal utilities,. sSuch Easements shall be at least 10-
             feet wide along the front, side, and rear lot lines, when it does not negatively affect the location of the
             Development. The Easements shall not include those spaces occupied by an existing Building.
       2.    The width may be reduced when new Development occurs. The provided Easements shall comply with
             the location and width and as shown on the table below. The Easements shall not include those spaces
             occupied by an existing Building.
                                                                      Front   Side   Rear    Project Perimeter
     Commercial Corridor                                              10'     0'     0'
     Commercial Neighborhood                                          10'     5'     0'
     Commercial General                                               10'     0'     0'
     TOD & TOD-Core                                                   5'      0'     0'
     Mixed-Use                                                        5'      5'     20'
     Business Park                                                    10'     0'     0'
     Flex                                                             10'     0'     0'
     Historic and Landmark                                            10'     10'    10'
     Jordan River                                                     10'     10'    10'
     School                                                           10'     10'    10'
     City Facility                                                    10'     0'     0'
     R1                                                               10'     5'     10'
     Townhome Overlay                                                 10'     0'     0'      8'
     Residential Multiple                                             10'     5'     10'
     Riverfront MPMU - Flex/Office                                    10'     5'     10'
     Riverfront MPMU - R1                                             10'     5'     10'
     Riverfront MPMU - RM1                                            10'     10'    10'
     Riverfront MPMU - School                                         10'     10'    10'
     Crossing MPMU - Anchor Tenant                                    *       *      *
     Crossing MPMU - 2100 S./State St.                                *       *      *
     Crossing MPMU - Transit                                          *       *      *
     Downtown                                                         5'      0'     0'
     East Streetcar                                                   5'      0'     0'



                                                        Page 4 of 5
  Granite Lofts Townhome Units 1-5,8-11,14-15,20-23              8'     0      10'
  Granite Lofts Townhome Units 6,7,12,13,18,                     8'     8'     0
  19,24,25
  Granite MPMU - Library                                         *      *      *
  Granite MPMU - Townhome                                        *      *      *


*See Approved MPMU or Overlay District
     3.   All easements shall be indicated on the Plat. Proper coordination shall be established by the Applicant
          between the applicable utility companies for the establishment of utility facilities and easements to
          adjoining Properties.
     4.   Where necessary to ensure proper Access and maintenance, easement widths shall be increased as
          required by the City Engineer for the type of Development proposed. Easements for water lines shall
          be a minimum of thirty feet (30') wide.




                                                   Page 5 of 5
