                                                          AGENDA
                                            PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
                                                Thursday, November 21, 2024
                                              South Salt Lake Council Chambers
                                                   220 East Morris Avenue

                   PLANNING COMMISSION HOLIDAY GATHERING AT 6:00 P.M.
                   A majority of the Planning Commission will be gathering socially prior to the regular
                   meeting. This gathering is not a meeting pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 52-4-101 et. seq.
                   No discussions, deliberations, or actions will be taken on any relevant matters nor will
                   public comment about relevant matters will be received.

                   PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING AT 7:00 P.M.
 JONATHAN           Pledge of Allegiance: Chad Ewell
WEIDENHAMER         Approve Agenda:       Jeremy Carter
COMMUNITY &        STAFF BUSINESS – INFORMATION ITEMS
 ECONOMIC
                    1. Upcoming Schedule
DEVELOPMENT
                    2. Final Plat Issued
  DIRECTOR
                          a. Tuan Tran – 159 East 3900 South

                   PLANNING COMMISSION BUSINESS
                    Approval of the November 7, 2024, Planning Commission Minutes
                    ACTION ITEM

                    Discussion and Adoption of the revised Bylaws

                   NEW BUSINESS
                    1. PUBLIC HEARING
                       A petition to the Planning Commission for a recommendation to the South Salt Lake
                       City Council for an ordinance amendment to rezone the properties located at 3302,
                       3330, & 3340 South 300 West from TOD to Commercial General.
                       ACTION ITEM
                       Applicant: Derek Mortensen, Michael Ault, and Phyillis Parrish

                    2. PUBLIC HEARING
                       An application for a Preliminary Plat to consolidate five parcels into one lot, located
                       at 210 West 3300 South.
                       ACTION ITEM
                       Applicant: Utah Transit Authority

                    3. PUBLIC MEETING
                       An application for a Conditional Use Permit for the expansion of a Park-and-Ride to
                       construct an operator relief room located at 210 West 3300 South.
                       ACTION ITEM
                       Applicant: Utah Transit Authority

CHERIE WOOD         4. PUBLIC MEETING
    MAYOR              The Planning Commission, acting as the Historic Landmark Commission, will review
220 E MORRIS AVE       an application to reroof the Redwood building on the Historic Scott School campus
    SUITE 200          located at 3271 S 500 E.
SOUTH SALT LAKE        ACTION ITEM
      UTAH
                       Applicant: Department of Neighborhoods, represented by Steve Niederhauser
      84115
 O 801.483.6000
    SSLC.GOV           IN COMPLIANCE WITH THE AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT, INDIVIDUALS NEEDING AUXILIARY
MAYOR@SSLC.GOV      COMMUNICATIVE AIDS OR OTHER SERVICES FOR THIS MEETING SHOULD CONTACT ELIZA UNGRICHT, (801)
                                            483-6013, GIVING AT LEAST 24 HOURS NOTICE.
South Salt Lake Planning Commission Meeting                                     November 21, 2024, Page 2

                    Join Zoom Webinar
                    Please click the link below to join the webinar:
                    https://zoom.us/j/94724281477 | Webinar ID: 947 2428 1477
                              SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                    BYLAWS & RULES OF PROCEDURE


I.          INTRODUCTION.

         These bylaws are designed and adopted to provide guidance and direction for the South Salt
Lake Planning Commission (“Commission”) in the performance of their duties. The Planning
Commission shall be governed by the provisions of all applicable State Statutes, City Ordinances, as
well as these bylaws.

II.         COMMISSION MEMBERSHIP.

      A. Members. The Commission is comprised of seven members (“member”) and two alternate
         members (“alternate”). All members and alternates shall be appointed by the Mayor, subject to
         the approval of the City Council. All members shall be addressed as “Commissioner”.

      B. Alternates. Alternates may act in the place of any absent member at any meeting of the
         Commission. Members are responsible for coordinating to have an alternate act in their place and
         shall notify the Community Development Department of the circumstance.

      C. Terms. Commission members are appointed for a period of four (4) years, with terms staggered
         to allow for continuity on the Commission.

      D. Resignation/Removal of Commissioners. All resignations must be in writing. Commissioners
         may be removed for cause.

      E. Quorum. Four (4) members shall constitute a Quorum to conduct business. All actions taken
         shall be by majority vote.

      F. Attendance. Attendance of members at regularly scheduled meetings may be enforced by the
         Chairperson of the Commission. Any member desiring to be excused shall notify Staff and
         coordinate to have an alternate act in their place.

      G. Clerk. The Community Development Department shall provide a person to act as Clerk of the
         Commission.

      H. Staff. The Community Development Department shall act as Staff for the Commission and shall
         provide staff reviews or reports, administer zoning ordinances, provide drafts of ordinances or
         master plans for consideration coordinate and provide training for the Commission, and process
         all applications required by city ordinances.

      I.   Member Responsibilities. Each member shall be responsible to:

           1. Read and study the agenda, staff reports, and all attached documents prepared by Staff so that
              they are fully informed about each application prior to the scheduled Commission meeting.
           2. Act in a courteous and respectful manner towards other members, Staff, applicants, and the
              public during all meetings.
           3. Attend Commission meetings and arrive on time.
           4. Follow the Rules of Order and Procedure as outlined in Section V.


                                                       1
       J. Training. Commissioners shall obtain training as required by Utah Code. A newly appointed
          member may not participate in a public meeting as an appointed member until the member
          completes the training as required by Utah Code. Failure to comply with the training
          requirements may result in removal from the Commission.

   K. Compensation. Members shall serve without pay, except for reasonable and legitimate expenses
      as approved by the City Council.

III.       POWERS AND DUTIES OF COMMISSION.

   A. Commission Member's Duties. The Planning Commission shall:
      1. Prepare and recommend a general plan and amendments to the general plan to the legislative
         body.
      2. Recommend zoning ordinances and maps, and amendments to zoning ordinances and maps,
         to the legislative body.
      3. Administer provisions of the zoning and development ordinances, where specifically
         provided for in those ordinances.
      4. Recommend action or take action on development applications.
      5. Advise the legislative body on matters as the legislative body directs.
      6. Hear or decide any matters that the legislative body designates, including the approval or
         denial of, conditional use permits and subdivision plat approvals and amendments to
         subdivision plats.
      7. Exercise any other powers that are necessary to enable it to perform its function, or are
         delegated to it by the legislative body.

   B. Chairperson. The members shall elect a Chairperson from its members at the first regularly
      scheduled meeting of the Commission each year. The Chairperson shall preside at all meetings of
      the Commission. The Chairperson shall vote but shall not make or second motions. The
      Chairperson shall maintain order at all meetings.

   C. Vice-Chairperson. The members shall elect a Vice-Chairperson from its members at the first
      regularly scheduled meeting of the Commission each year. In the temporary absence or disability
      of the Chairperson, the Vice-Chairperson shall preside at the meetings in the Chair’s absence and
      perform the role and responsibilities of the Chair. In the event of the resignation or removal of the
      Chairperson, the Vice-Chairperson shall serve the remainder of the term as Chairperson and the
      Commission shall elect a new Vice-Chairperson to serve the remainder of the term.

   D. Election of Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson. At the first regularly scheduled meeting of the
      year or in the event of the resignation or removal of the Chairperson or Vice-Chairperson the next
      practicable meeting thereafter, a new Chairperson and Vice-Person shall be elected by receiving a
      nomination from a Commission member and by receiving the majority of the roll call vote of the
      Commission members.

   E. Chairperson and Vice-Person's Absence. During the temporary absence or disability of the
      Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson, the Commission member with the most seniority shall
      perform the role and responsibilities of the Chair.

   F. Conflict of Interest. Members of the Commission who feel they or any other member of the
      Commission have an actual, apparent, or reasonably foreseeable conflict of interest on any matter
      that is on the Commission agenda shall explain the apparent conflict to the Commission. If there
      is a conflict of interest, as determined by the Commission, that person shall not participate in the

                                                    2
      discussion and voting of that matter, nor attempt to use his/her influence with other
      Commissioners. An alternate may sit in place of the member stepping down but the member may
      resume the seat for other items on the agenda.

  G. Use of Power. A Commissioner shall not use the power as Commissioner to seek or obtain a
     special advantage that is not in the public interest nor any special advantage that is not a matter of
     public knowledge.


IV.    MEETINGS/AGENDA

  A. Schedule. At a regular meeting near the end of each year, the Commission shall determine the
     schedule of regular monthly meetings for the following year. The schedule of meetings shall be
     posted at City Hall and Commission members provided with a copy. The Commission may
     change this schedule provided that such change is posted and members provided with a copy, as
     required by Utah Code. The Commission is anticipated to meet twice monthly.

  B. Regular Meetings. Meeting locations shall be publicly noticed and held each month. Annual
     notice of meeting dates shall be noticed as required by Utah Code. In addition, dates and times of
     the meetings shall be posted as required by Utah Code.

  C. Field Trips. The Commission may, at their discretion, schedule field trips for the purpose of
     investigating certain matters. Field trips shall be for the purpose of gathering information, not
     discussing decisions nor conducting business.

  D. Special Meetings. Special meetings may be called by the Chairperson, Staff, or a majority of the
     Commission members at any time. Absent urgency, Commission members must be notified at
     least seventy-two (72) hours in advance by telephone or written notice before the meeting is held
     and public notice is given as required by Utah Code. If the meeting is of an urgent nature,
     Commission members must be notified at least twenty-four (24) hours in advance by telephone or
     written notice. Other special meetings, including work meetings, may be called by the
     Commission, the Chair, the Mayor, or Staff. The Commission must be given at least one week of
     advance notice of these meetings.

  E. Meeting Cancellation. Notice of the cancellation of a meeting shall be posted as required by Utah
     Code. If a meeting is rescheduled, the new meeting time, date and location shall be posted as
     required by Utah Code.

  F. Agenda. Except for special meetings and emergency meetings, the agenda for the Commission
     meetings will be completed by the Friday preceding the meeting. New requests for items on the
     agenda must be presented to Staff sufficiently in advance of the scheduled meeting for review
     and notification (as determined by staff). Any materials for the Planning Commission, pertaining
     to the agenda items, must be presented to the Commissioners no later than the Monday preceding
     the meeting, or for special or emergency meetings, as far in advance as practical. The agenda is to
     be set by Staff based on the items to be considered with the following as a general guide:

              1.       Moment of reflection/Pledge of Allegiance
              2.       Approve Agenda
              3.       Discussion Calendar
              4.       Items from Staff
              5.       Commission Business

                                                   3
               6.      Continuing Business (or items requiring follow-up and/or action by the
                       Commission)
               4.7.    New Business (or items being placed before the Commission for the first time)
               5.      Continuing Business (or items requiring follow-up and/or action by the
                       Commission)
               6.1.    Commission Business
               7.8.    Adjournment

V.      RULES OF ORDER AND PROCEDURE

     A. Rules of Order. Except as specified herein, the Commission shall follow the current edition of
        Robert's Rules of Order-Simplified in all meetings. All meetings shall adhere to the Utah Open
        Meetings Act, and the Government Records Access Management Act.

     B. Order of Business. The order of the business at the regular meetings shall follow the noticed
        agenda. The Chair, with the consent of the Commission, by majority vote, or upon consideration
        of Staff or the applicant(s), may consider matters out of the agenda order.

     C. Decision Items. All decision items on the agenda shall be approved, denied, or continued to the
        next regularly scheduled or otherwise specified meeting for action by the Commission. All
        decision items are subject to the following procedures:

           1. Motion. A matter for decision shall be placed before the Commission by motion made by
              any member present at the meeting. The Chair may not make motions before the
              Commission, except in the absence of a response from other members to an invitation by
              the Chair that a motion on a pending matter would be in order. Each motion must be
              seconded. Any member may second a motion. Alternates may not make any motions or
              second any motions, unless serving as an acting Member of the Commission at the
              meeting due to the absence of a regular member.

           2. Voting. Following a seconded motion, the Chair may call upon each member (or an
              alternate voting in place of a member abstaining from voting due to a conflict of interest)
              to verbally pronounce the member’s vote as an “aye” or “yes” or “nay” or “no”. Those
              Commission members that are present at the meeting may vote. A vote by roll call may
              be requested by a member or the Chairperson.

           3. Majority. A majority vote by the present members in favor of a motion shall carry the
              motion. No member shall be permitted to change his/her vote after the decision is
              announced by the Chairperson.

           4. Tie Vote. In the event of a tie vote, the motion fails.

           5. Findings. Actions taken by motion shall include findings and/or reasons for the proposed
              action.

           6. Non-unanimous Vote. Following a non-unanimous vote, the Chair may ask members
              who voted in opposition to the motion, to state the member’s reasoning on the record.

           7. Consensus Only. Items requiring consensus only may be so specified by the Chair who
              shall state the action determined.

                                                    4
      D. Not to Vote Unless Present. No member of the Commission shall be permitted to vote on any
         question unless the member is present when the vote is taken and when the result is announced.
         A member who is not physically present may nevertheless participate in the meeting through
         electronic means and be counted toward the quorum. All electronic meeting proceedings shall
         comply with state law. Any member participating via electronic means may make, second, and
         vote on all motions and participate in the discussion as though present. No member shall give
         his/her proxy to any persons whomsoever.

VI.      PROCEDURES FOR PUBLIC MEETINGS AND HEARINGS

         A. Public Meetings. The public is invited to all Planning Commission Meetings, including
            emergency, special, and work meetings. Public Meetings do not contain a public comment
            portion. The public must act in an orderly and appropriate manner. Except for the
            Commissioners and Staff, all persons in attendance shall give their names on the roles
            provided. The Chair may have any individual removed from the meeting for inappropriate
            conduct.

                1. Procedure at a Public Meeting. Unless altered by the Chair, the order of the
                   procedure at a public meeting on an application or decision item shall be:

                     a. Presentation of the application by Staff. Staff will introduce and present the
                        application to the Commission, including its recommendations, and a summary
                        of the pertinent written comments and reports concerning the application.

                     b. Applicant Presentation. The applicant will be given an opportunity to address
                        the Commission and explain/present additional information to the Commission
                        or answer any questions the Commission may have. The applicant’s
                        presentation shall not exceed fifteen (15) minutes, subject to the discretion of
                        the Chair.

                     c. Discussion and Vote. After Staff and applicant presentations have been made,
                        the members may discuss the application or decision item among the
                        Commission. Following the discussion, a motion must be made and seconded,
                        which may include, Approval, Approval with Conditions, Denial, a
                        recommendation to the City Council (as appropriate), or a continuation of the
                        item to a date specific.

                     d. Decisions. A decision of the Commission shall be documented on the record,
                        including the reasons for such decision.

         B. Public Hearings. The public is invited to all Planning Commission Public Hearings. The
            public must act in an orderly and appropriate manner. Public Hearings do contain a public
            comment portion. Except for the Commissioners and Staff, all persons in attendance shall
            give their names on the roles provided. The Chair may have any individual removed from
            the meeting for inappropriate conduct.

                1. Procedure at a Public Hearing. Unless altered by the Chair, the order of the procedure
                   at a public hearing on an application or decision item shall be:


                                                   5
a. Opening the Public Hearing. The Chair shall declare the public hearing open
   and invite Staff to present the decision item.

b.a. Presentation of the Application by Staff. Staff will introduce and present the
     application to the Commission, including its recommendations, and a summary
     of the pertinent written comments and reports concerning the application.

b. Applicant Presentation. The applicant will be given an opportunity to address
   the Commission and explain/present additional information to the Commission
   or answer any questions the Commission may have. The applicant’s
   presentation shall not exceed fifteen (15) minutes, subject to the discretion of
   the Chair.

    c.     Opening the Public Hearing. The Chair shall declare the public hearing
    open. and invite members of the public to provide comment on the item
    currently before the Commission.

d. Members of the Public. Persons, other than the applicant, whether in favor or in
   opposition to the application, will be given the opportunity to address the
   Commission to provide comment on the item currently before the Commission
   for decision. Comments shall not exceed three (3) minutes per person. In
   meetings during which numerous individuals wish to comment, the time for all
   public comments may be limited to less than three (3) minutes each, at the
   discretion of the Conducting Commissioner

    (1) The Conducting Commissioner shall have discretion as to who, if anyone,
    may respond to a comment/question. In all cases the criteria for response will be
    that comments/questions must be pertinent to City business, that there are no
    argumentative questions and no personal attacks. The Conducting
    Commissioner (or another individual designated by the Conducting Council
    Member) will inform a member of the public when that individual’s allotted
    time for comment has ended.

    (2) Members of the public who are not able to personally attend a meeting may
    present written comments, addressed to the Planning Commission and/or Staff
    at least two (2) hours prior to the meeting. Written comments may be delivered
    to the Deputy Community Development Directory via letter or electronic mail
    and should be labeled as “written comment” for a particular meeting.
    Appropriately labeled and timely received written comments will be distributed
    to all Planning Commissioner members and attached to the written minutes of
    the meeting. Planning Commission members and/or Staff may, in their
    discretion, reference the receipt of particular written comments. In no event is
    there a guarantee that written comments will be read verbatim or otherwise
    referred to during the Planning Commission meeting.

    (3) Members of the public who have joined the meeting electrically will not be
    able to comment during the Public Hearing. See section VI(B)(1)(d)(2) on how
    to submit comments prior to a meeting.

    All comments, whether written, oral, or recorded, must be civil and conform to
    the same rules as all other public comments. All attendees at Planning

                               6
                         Commission Meetings shall comply with the rules of decorum regarding
                         Conduct of Attendees at Commission Meetings as stated in these rules, and any
                         other laws, ordinances, or rules governing those in attendance.

                     c.e. Rebuttal by the Applicant. The applicant may be given, as necessary, the
                          opportunity to respond to new issues or questions raised by other parties.
                          Rebuttal shall not exceed five (5) minutes.

                     d.f. Closing the Public Hearing. After all presentations have been made, the Chair
                          shall move to close the public hearing.

                     e.g. Discussion and Vote. Members may continue to discuss the application or
                          decision item among the Commission and Staff. The Commission may also ask
                          the applicant any additional questions that may have been raised during their
                          discussion. Following the discussion, a motion must be made and seconded,
                          which may include, Approval, Approval with Conditions, Denial, a
                          recommendation to the City Council (as appropriate), or a continuation of the
                          item to a date specific.

                     f.h. Decisions. A decision of the Commission shall be documented on the record,
                          including the reasons for such decision.

                2. Rules for Persons Addressing the Commission.

                    a. Each speaker, before addressing the Commission, shall give their name and
                       address city of residence.

                    b. Only one speaker is permitted before the Commission at a time.

                    c. The discussion must be confined to the application or decision item currently
                       before the Commission.

                    d. The Chair may cease any presentation or information that has already been
                       presented and acknowledge that it has been noted in the public record.


VII.     ETHICS AND CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.

        A. Compliance. Members shall abide by Utah Code and City ordinances and annually complete
           any necessary forms, documents, and training.

        B. Recusal and Abstention. Any member declaring or having been found to have a conflict of
           interest shall step down and not participate in the discussion and vote pertaining to that
           particular matter. Reasons for abstention must be stated at the time of the abstention and
           such reason shall not be considered conflict of interest.


VIII.    MINUTES/RECORDS.

        A. Written Minutes. Written minutes shall be kept of all Planning Commission meetings. The
           approved minutes are public record and shall be available within a reasonable amount of time

                                                    7
          after approval. A draft of the minutes shall be presented to the commissioners with materials
          for the meeting at which approval is to be considered. Unless the meeting schedule prohibits,
          all draft minutes shall be presented to the Commissioners within 30 days of the meeting they
          represent. Such minutes shall include at least the following:

              1.      The date, time, and place of the meeting;
              2.      The names of the members present and absent;
              3.      The names of visitors and staff present; and
              4.      The substance of all matters proposed, discussed, or decided, and a record of the
                      votes taken.

      B. Recordings. A recording of all or any part of a Planning Commission meeting may be made by
        any person in attendance; providing the recording does not interfere with the conduct of the
        meeting.

IX.    AMENDMENTS.

        These bylaws may be amended at any regular Planning Commission meeting providing any
proposed amendments have been properly placed on the agenda and all Commission members provided
with a copy of the proposed amendments in advance of the meeting at which such amendments will be
considered. The bylaws will be amended upon majority vote.


       Effective Date: March 16, 2023Novemeber 21, 2024.




                                                  8
                                    PLANNING COMMISSION STAFF REPORT

MEETING DATE:          November 21, 2024
PROJECT NUMBER:        ZC24-0003
REQUEST(S):            A petition to amend the zoning map for three parcels from Transit Oriented Development (TOD)
                       to Commercial General (CG).
ADDRESS:               3302 S., 3330 S., and 3340 S. 300 W.
PROPERTY OWNERS:       SSL#11, LLC; Catfish Enterprise Inc.; 3340 Trust
APPLICANT:             Derek Mortensen, Michael Ault, & Phyillis Parrish (Save our Businesses)

                                                   SYNOPSIS:
                                                   The Applicants, known collectively as Save Our Businesses (SOB),
                                                   petition to amend the zoning map for three parcels from Transit
                                                   Oriented Development (TOD) to Commercial General (CG). These
                                                   properties are located at 3302 S, 3330 S, and 3340 S 300 West. The
                                                   Applicants request the Planning Commission forward a
                                                   recommendation to the City Council to approve the zone change.

                                                   The image to the left shows the subject properties (outlined in red)
                                                   along the west side of 300 West. These properties, historically and
                                                   currently, contain commercial Uses inside established commercial
                                                   buildings. The Applicants argue that the current TOD zoning limits
                                                   the permitted uses, making it challenging to find tenants to house
                                                   in the existing buildings. As found in the Applicant’s Letter to the
                                                   Community and Economic Development Department (Exhibit B),
                                                   the Applicants request to zone to “easy flex”; however, this is not a
                                                   zoning district as found in Title 17 of the South Salt Lake City Code.
                                                   Staff does not recommend creating a new zone for these three
                                                   properties, but is supportive of the change from TOD to GC.

The Planning Commission is the recommending body for all zoning map amendments, and the City Council is the final
land use authority.

                                                   SURROUNDING LAND USE
  EXISTING ZONING           EXISTING USE                                                      PROPOSED USES
                                                           DISTRICTS
                                                   North: Commercial General
                                                                                           Commercial; Minor
   Transit Oriented                                        South: TOD
                             Commercial                                                   Manufacturing; Retail;
    Development                                         East: TOD-Core
                                                                                        Commercial Repair Services.
                                                           West: TOD

STAFF RECOMMENDATION:
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission forward a recommendation to the City Council to approve an
amendment to the zoning map for the three existing parcels listed in the application and staff report from TOD to GC.
Staff’s recommendation is based on its analysis and findings, which are included below.




                                                          1
                                     PLANNING COMMISSION STAFF REPORT


GENERAL INFORMATION:

Location:                               3302 S 300 W
                                        3330 S 300 W
                                        3340 S 300 W
Surrounding Land Use Districts:         North: Commercial General
                                        South: TOD
                                        East: TOD-Core
                                        West: TOD

Figure 1: Existing Zoning Map (Subject Properties Identified in Red)




                                                           2
Figure 2: Proposed Zoning Map Changes




The proposed zone change is from Transit Oriented Development (TOD) to Commercial General (CG). The Applicant
states that the current TOD zoning is restrictive and does not allow for as many allowed Uses as are allowed in CG.
Planning staff finds that zoning these three properties to CG is consistent with the zoning immediately to the north of
3300 South.

The purpose of the CG district is to allow more intense business activity to improve the economic base of the City
without detriment to the environmental character and quality of the district. This district provides space for many highly
diverse types of commercial activity needed to serve people and industry and to maintain and strengthen the economic
base of the City (Land Use and Development § 17.03.060).

                                                            3
Figure 3: Existing Site Conditions




3302 S. 300 W. – Facing South




3330 S. 300 W. – Facing West

                                     4
3340 S. 300 W. – Facing Northwest


 PLANNING COMMISSION AUTHORITY:

17.11.010. Establishment and Duties of Planning Commission.
    K. Responsibilities.
       A. The Planning Commission makes recommendations to the City Council for:
               a. The general plan and amendments to the general plan;
               b. The Land Use Map, and amendments to the Land Use Map;
               c. Amendments to land use ordinances;
               d. Proposed Application processes and the delegation of power under the land use ordinance.

GENERAL PLAN CONSIDERATIONS:

Land Use & Neighborhood Strategy 6: Regulate land uses based on compatibility with surrounding uses, the health of
residential areas, and economic feasibility.

        Analysis: Currently, the properties are restricted to the types of allowed uses in the TOD District. However, with
        the proposed zoning change, the Applicants and property owners of 3302 S., 3330 S., and 3340 S 300 West will
        gain the flexibility to lease to tenants whose business activities are better aligned with and more compatible
        with the surrounding land uses, fostering a cohesive General Commercial District immediately south of the same
        zone across 3300 South.


 STAFF RECOMMENDATION:

Staff recommends the Planning Commission forward a recommendation to the City Council to approve an amendment
to the zoning map for three existing parcels from Transit Oriented Development to Commercial General, with the
following Findings of Fact:

Findings of Fact:
    1. The subject properties, located at 3302 S, 3330 S, and 3340 S 300 W, are two metes-and-bounds parcels and all
        of Lots 1, 2, and 38 of the Green Acres Subdivision.
    2. All properties are located in the Transit Oriented Development (TOD) land use district.
    3. The proposed zone change will change the land use designation of all three properties to the Commercial
        General (CG) land use district.
    4. Each property is used commercially.
                                                            5
 PLANNING COMMISSION OPTIONS:


Option 1: Approval
Move to forward a recommendation of approval of the application by Derek Mortensen, Michael Ault, & Phyillis Parrish
to the South Salt Lake City Council to amend the zoning map for two metes-and-bounds parcels and all of Lots 1, 2, and
38 of the Green Acres Subdivision from TOD to Commercial General located at 3302 S, 3330 S, and 3340 S 300 W, based
on the analysis and Finding of Fact set forth in the staff report.

Option 2: Denial
Move to forward a recommendation to deny the application by Derek Mortensen, Michael Ault, & Phyillis Parrish to the
South Salt Lake City Council to amend the zoning map for two metes-and-bounds parcels and all of Lots 1, 2, and 38 of
the Green Acres Subdivision from TOD to Commercial General located at 3302 S, 3330 S, and 3340 S 300 W, based on
the analysis and Findings discussed on the record.

Option 3: Continuance
Move to table the decision on the application by Derek Mortensen, Michael Ault, & Phyillis Parrish, to the South Salt
Lake City Council to amend the zoning map for two metes-and-bounds parcels and all of Lots 1, 2, and 38 of the Green
Acres Subdivision from TOD to Commercial General located at 3302 S, 3330 S, and 3340 S 300 W, to a date certain to
allow the Applicant and Staff time to respond to specific inquires or concerns raised by the Planning Commission, or to
allow the Planning Commission more time to consider the proposal.


Exhibits:
Exhibit A: Existing and Proposed Amended Zoning Map
Exhibit B: Applicant’s Letter to the Community Economic and Development Department




                                                            6
                                              EXHIBIT A

The area outlined in red, currently zoned as Transit Oriented Development (TOD) will be amended to
Commercial General (CG) on the South Salt Lake Zoning Map as shown below:

             Existing Zoning Map:




             Proposed Zoning Map:
EXHIBIT B
                                   PLANNING COMMISSION STAFF REPORT
MEETING DATE:        November 21, 2024
PROJECT NUMBER:      S24-00011
REQUEST:             The Applicant proposes consolidating five metes-and-bounds parcels into one legal lot to
                     construct a relief station for UTA transit operators. Additionally, the Applicant proposes
                     dedicating a portion of the Washington Street right-of-way to South Salt Lake City.
ADDRESSES:           3187 S., 3197 S., 3205 S., and 3227 S. Washington Street; 210 W. 3300 South
PARCEL NUMBERS:      15-25-404-008; 15-25-404-011; 15-25-404-012; 15-25-404-013; 15-25-404-016
PROPERTY OWNER:      Utah Transit Authority (UTA)
APPLICANT:           UTA; Spencer Burgoyne, Manager of Property Administration
TYPE OF APPLICATION: Administrative – Subdivision Plat Approval

 SYNOPSIS: Utah Transit Authority (UTA)
 proposes to combine five metes-and-
 bounds parcels into one lot of record to
 accommodate the construction of a 1,145-
 square-foot relief station exclusively for
 UTA’s transit operators. Additionally, this
 proposal includes dedicating approximately
 3,587 square feet of the Washington Street
 right-of-way to South Salt Lake City.

 The site houses the Millcreek TRAX station,
 associated bus connections, and patron
 park and ride. Currently, the property
 contains a temporary relief station that UTA
 installed several years ago and needs
 replacement for the well-being of UTA bus
 and train operators, especially by providing
 a clean, safe, and permanent facility.
 Consolidation of the parcels will assist UTA
 in managing and streamlining the project.

 STAFF RECOMMENDATION:
 Staff recommends approval for a preliminary subdivision plat amendment to consolidate five parcels into one legal lot
 of record.

   EXISTING ZONING           EXISTING LAND USE                SURROUND ZONING                 SIZE OF PROPERTY
                                                               North – TOD-Core
                                                                                          93,331 square feet / 2.143
                             Park and Ride; TRAX               South – TOD-Core
       TOD-Core                                                                          acres after consolidation and
                                   Station                      East – TOD-Core
                                                                                                road dedication
                                                               West – TOD-Core




                                                          1
                                  PLANNING COMMISSION STAFF REPORT

GENERAL INFORMATION:

Location:                             Parcel 1 – 3187 S. Washington Street
                                      Parcel 2 – 3197 S. Washington Street
                                      Parcel 3 – 3205 S. Washington Street
                                      Parcel 4 – 3227 S. Washington Street
                                      Parcel 5 – 210 W. 3300 South

Parcel Size:                          Parcel 1 – 0.70 Acres (30,672 sq. ft.)
                                      Parcel 2 – 0.08 Acres (3,346 sq. ft.)
                                      Parcel 3 – 0.66 Acres (28,722 sq. ft.)
                                      Parcel 4 – 0.37 Acres (16,053 sq. ft.)
                                      Parcel 5 – 0.42 Acres (18,125 sq. ft.)
                                      TOTAL – 2.22 Acres (96,918 sq. ft.)

                                      AFTER DEDICATION – 2.14 Acres (93,331 sq. ft.)

Surrounding Land Use Districts:       North: TOD-Core
                                      South: TOD-Core
                                      East: TOD-Core
                                      West: TOD-Core

Figure 1: Existing Parcel Lines




                                                         2
Figure 2: Existing Condition Looking North on 3300 South




Figure 3: Existing Condition Looking Southeast on Washington Street




                                                           3
Figure 4: Proposed Preliminary Plat




Figure 5: Site Plan




                                      4
Figure 6: Alta Survey




                        5
PLANNING COMMISSION AUTHORITY:
17.11.030. Land use authority designations.
Pursuant to state law, the following administrative land use authority designations are made:

    A. Planning Commission. The planning commission is the land use authority on issues of: subdivision and
       subdivision plat approval, vacating, altering or amending a Subdivision Plat; Conditional Use Permit
       Applications; design review for Building Heights as established in this Title; design review for projects on
       Parcels where any portion of the Parcel abuts any residential district; and the issuance of a Building or
       demolition permit in a Historic and Landmark district.

GENERAL PLAN CONSIDERATIONS:

Community Values Goal 3: Take advantage of opportunities relating to the City's location at the center of the
regional transportation, transit, trails, open space, library, recreation, and school systems to serve residents,
businesses, and visitors.

      Analysis: UTA will continue to maintain and operate the Millcreek TRAX Station as a regional transit hub by
      providing amenities to its employees. The long-term well-being of the transit operators will ensure that South
      Salt Lake remains the center of regional transportation.


ORDINANCE ANALYSIS:


                                                                                                            Notes /
                   Ordinance                                            Finding
                                                                                                         Insufficiency
                                           TOD Core District Code
 17.10.120 – Requirements for Improvements & Design
   A. Compliance with laws, rules and         Petition complies.
       regulations.

   B. South Salt Lake construction                  The Engineering Department reviewed the
      specifications and standard drawings          proposed subdivision plat and finds it
      (Road profile dedications).                   complies.

   C. Self-Imposed restrictions.                    The applicant does not propose any
                                                    restrictions.

   D. Restrictions due to character of the          Not applicable
      land.

 17.10.140 – Subdivision Development Lot Standards
   A. All Final Plats shall result in the      After consolidation and Right-of-Way
       creation of compliant Lots and Building dedication, the total acreage of the lot is 2.143
       sites.                                  acres. The proposed lot complies with the
                                               standards in Title 17 of the South Salt Lake
                                               Municipal Code.

   B. Frontage on a public street.                  The proposed Lot has frontage on Washington
                                                    Street and 3300 South.



                                                            6
  C. Street right-of-way shall be separate        Petition complies.
     and distinct from subdivided lots.

  D. Minimum area and dimensions shall            There is no acreage requirement                 for
     conform.                                     commercial use in the TOD-Core District.

  E. Side boundary lines shall be at right        Petition complies.
     angles to the street.

  F. Side boundary lines of lots shall be         Not applicable.
     radial to the center of a Cul-de-Sac.

  G. Corner lots for residential uses shall be    Not applicable.
     platted wider than interior lots.

  H. Lots shall not divide the City boundary.     All existing and proposed parcels are located
                                                  within South Salt Lake City.

  I.   Double frontage SF residential lots.       Not applicable.

  J.   Multiple building yard areas.              Not applicable.

  K. Side lot lines shall be at right angles to   Not applicable.
     street lines.

  L. Dimensions of Corner Lots shall be large     Not applicable
     enough to allow for erection of
     Buildings .

  M. Depth and width of properties shall be       Parking exists for this site. One parking stall will
     adequate to provide for off-street           be removed to accommodate the relief station.
     parking and loading facilities.

  N. New Single-Family lots                       Not applicable.

  O. If Access from an Arterial or Collector      Not applicable.
     Street is necessary for new adjoining
     lots, such lots shall be served by
     separate local street.

  P. Driveways shall be designed and              Not applicable.
     arranged to avoid vehicles backing onto
     Streets.

  Q. Lots shall be laid out to provide positive   Per the Engineering review, there is positive
     drainage away from all buildings.            drainage away from all buildings.

17.10.160(A) - Drainage and Storm Sewers General Requirements
  A. Each plat shall make adequate provision Per the Engineering review, there is adequate
      for storm or flood water runoff.        provision for storm or flood water runoff.



                                                          7
17.10.160(B) – Nature of Stormwater Facilities
  A. Applicants may be required to carry           Not applicable.
      away by pipe or open channel any
      spring or surface water that may exist
      either previously to or as a result of the
      subdivision.

  B. Adequate underground stormwater               Per the Engineering review, there is an
     systems shall be constructed and              adequate underground stormwater system.
     maintained.

  C. Accommodation of Upstream Drainage            Not applicable.
     Areas.

  D. Adequate storm / flood water drainage         Per the Engineering review, there is adequate
     will be provided to an approved               storm or flood water drainage.
     drainage watercourse or facility with
     capacity.

  E. Areas of poor drainage shall be               Sufficient drainage is provided per Engineering
     remediated as applicable.                     review.

  F. Flood plain areas shall be preserved          No floodplain areas exist to be preserved upon
     upon recommendation of City Engineer          recommendation of the South Salt Lake City
     when necessary for the health, safety,        Engineer.
     or welfare of the population of the area.

17.10.170 - Water Facilities
  A. Applicant shall extend the public             Adequate water supply provisions are
      culinary water supply system for the         proposed per South Salt Lake Engineering
      purpose of providing an adequate water       review.
      supply to the Plat.

  B. Applicant shall install adequate water        South Salt Lake Engineering has reviewed all
     facilities including fire hydrants.           proposed water infrastructure and complies
                                                   with city standards.

  C. Water extensions shall meet City’s            Not applicable.
     standards
  D. Fire flow shall be approved by the Fire       The Fire Marshal has reviewed and approved
     Marshal.                                      the proposed development plan.

  E. Location of all fire hydrants, all water      The Fire Marshal has reviewed and approved
     and storage supply improvements shall         the proposed development plan.
     be shown on the approved site plan and
     the cost of installing shall be included on
     the performance guaranty.
  F. A determination shall be made as to           There are no private facilities at this location to
     location or extent of facilities to be        be maintained by South Salt Lake City.
     maintained by South Salt Lake City, if
     any.


                                                           8
   G. Fire hydrants required for all plats.        The Fire Marshal has reviewed and approved
                                                   the proposed development plan.

17.10.180 - Sewer Facilities
  A. The applicant shall install sanitary sewer    Prior to recording the final plat, the Applicant See Condition of
      facilities in a manner prescribed by the     shall provide the city with a Will-Serve Letter Approval 3.
      applicable sanitary sewer authority.         from Mount Olympus Improvement District
                                                   that indicates the sanitary sewer facilities can
                                                   accommodate the relief station.

   B. Sanitary sewer facilities shall connect      Prior to recording the final plat, the Applicant See Condition of
      with the public sanitary sewer at sizes      shall provide the city with a Will-Serve Letter Approval 4.
      required by the sanitary sewer authority     from Mount Olympus Improvement District
                                                   that indicates the required size of sanitary
                                                   sewer connections required.

17.10.190 – Utilities
  A. Utility facilities shall be located           The power lines running along the road will
      underground in new subdivisions.             remain due to their location outside UTA’s
                                                   property.

   B. Easements centered on Rear Lot Lines         The plat shall indicate a ten-foot public utility See Condition of
      shall be provided for private and            easement on the perimeter of the lot.             Approval 5.
      municipal utilities; such easements shall
      be at least 10’ wide.

17.10.200 - Sidewalks, Trails, and Bike Paths
  A. Subdivision shall comply with the             The existing roadways comply with the current
      applicable road profile – including          Public Right of Way standards.
      sidewalks, landscaping, bike lanes, curb
      and gutter, etc.

   B. Trails, pedestrian paths, and bike paths     Public and internal pathways relate
      shall relate appropriately to topography.    appropriately to topography on the site and
                                                   comply with South Salt Lake code.

   C. Trails, pedestrian paths, and bike paths     The Trails Master Plan does not include any
      shall be provided in accordance with the     facilities adjacent to the subject property.
      Trails Master Plan.


STAFF RECOMMENDATION:
Based upon the information submitted in the application, supporting documentation, and analysis of the relevant
code sections and general plan goals, Staff recommends the Planning Commission move to approve the preliminary
subdivision plat amendment to consolidate the five (5) parcels into one lot located at 3187 S., 3197 S., 3205 S., and
3227 S. Washington Street; and 210 W. 3300 South, based on the Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and
Conditions of Approval for the Millcreek Station Subdivision in the staff report.

Findings of Fact:

     1. The subject location is 3187 S., 3197 S., 3205 S., and 3227 S. Washington Street; 210 W. 3300 South in the
         Transit Oriented Development Core District.
                                                          9
     2. The parcel numbers are 15-25-404-008; 15-25-404-011; 15-25-404-012; 15-25-404-013; 15-25-404-016.

     3. The new address for Lot 1 of the Millcreek Station Subdivision Plat is 210 W 3300 South.

     4. The property is the existing location of the UTA Millcreek Station.

     5. The purpose of the proposed Subdivision is to consolidate five parcels into one Lot, allowing UTA to
          construct a relief station.

     6. The proposed Subdivision will dedicate 3,587 square feet of the Washington Street right-of-way to South Salt
          Lake City.

     7. After consolidation and right-of-way dedication, the total size of the lot is 2.14 acres.

     8. No impact is expected as part of the business on environmentally sensitive lands. There is no environmentally
          sensitive land on site.

     9. No specific hazards or adverse impacts are expected due to the proposed use.

     10. Park and Ride is a Conditional Use in the Transit Oriented Development Core District.

     11. The proposed Subdivision will comply with all requirements of the South Salt Lake Municipal Code.

     12. Staff reviewed this subdivision application for compliance with South Salt Lake Municipal Code Sections
          17.10.120, 17.10.130, 17.10.140, 17.10.150, 17.10.160, 17.10.170, 17.10.180, 17.10.190 and 17.10.200, and
          found that this subdivision application is compliant with this section, as outlined above.

Conclusions of Law:

     1.    The use, as specifically conditioned below, is consistent with the South Salt Lake City General Plan.

     2.    The use, as specifically conditioned below, is compatible in use, scale, and design with allowed uses in the
           TOD-Core district.

     3.    The use, as specifically conditioned below, does not compromise the health, safety, or welfare of: Persons
           employed within or using the proposed development; Those residing or working in the vicinity of the
           proposed use or development; or Property or improvements in the vicinity of the proposed use or
           development.

     4.    The use, as specifically conditioned below, does not impose disproportionate burdens on the citizens of
           South Salt Lake.

Subdivision Plat Conditions of Approval:

     1.    The applicant will continue working with City staff to make all necessary technical corrections before
           recording.

     2.    Prior to plat recordation and any additional development of the subsequent lot, the applicant must provide
           city staff the final plat mylar to include notarized signatures of owners’ consent to dedication; obtain
           signatures of all entities indicated on the subdivision plat attached hereto.

                                                           10
     3.   Prior to recording the final plat, the Applicant shall provide the city with a Will-Serve Letter from Mount
          Olympus Improvement District that indicates the sanitary sewer facilities can accommodate the relief
          station.

     4.   Prior to recording the final plat, the Applicant shall provide the city with a Will-Serve Letter from Mount
          Olympus Improvement District that indicates the required size of sanitary sewer connections required.

     5.   The plat shall indicate a ten-foot public utility easement on the perimeter of the lot.

     6.   The applicant shall complete (or post an adequate improvement completion assurance), warrant and post
          required warranty assurance for all required landscaping and public infrastructure improvements including
          street lights.

     7.   The applicant shall ensure that all site improvements are installed consistent with the requirements of the
          South Salt Lake City Municipal Code.

     8.   The applicant shall dedicate an easement to the City of South Salt Lake for purposes of storm water
          management practices and ensure the plat includes language of the dedication of such easement, in a form
          as approved by the City Attorney’s Office.

     9.   The proposed development shall meet all requirements of the South Salt Lake Community Development
          Department, South Salt Lake Fire Marshal, the South Salt Lake Building Official, and the South Salt Lake
          Engineering Department.

     10. The applicant shall comply with all applicable International Building Codes and International Fire Codes and
         must obtain and complete a South Salt Lake building permit.

     11. The applicant shall record the plat with the Salt Lake County Recorder’s Office within 2 years of receiving
         final plat approval or the applicant elects to install Infrastructure Improvements prior to Plat recordation.
         The applicant shall have applied for the proper permits, deposited a 10% Warranty Assurance, and be
         actively working on the issued permit.

     12. All items of the staff report.

PLANNING COMMISSION OPTIONS:

Option 1: Approval
Move to approve the application by Spencer Burgoyne, on behalf of UTA, for a preliminary subdivision plat to
consolidate five (5) parcels into one lot located at 210 W. 3300 South, based on the Findings and Conclusions in the
staff report, with the conditions enumerated in the staff report and on the record.

Option 2: Denial
Move to deny the application by Spencer Burgoyne, on behalf of UTA, for a preliminary subdivision plat to consolidate
five (5) parcels into one lot located at 210 W. 3300 South, based on the findings and conclusions articulated by the
Planning Commission on the record.

Option 3: Continuance
Move to table the application by Spencer Burgoyne, on behalf of UTA, for a preliminary subdivision plat to consolidate
five (5) parcels into one lot located at 210 W. 3300 South to a date certain to allow the Applicants and Staff time to
respond to specific inquiries or concerns raised by the Planning Commission, or to allow the Planning Commission more
time to consider the proposal.


                                                          11
Attachments:

      1. Plat
      2. Site Plan
      3. Alta Survey




                       12
                                                                                                                                                                                   MIILCREEK STATION SUBDIVISION PLAT




                                                                                                                                                               ”                                                        ”




                                                                                                                                                                                                        ”
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ”
               '   Δ0                                                                                                                                                                ”                              ”

                                                                                                                                                                           ”                                ”                       ”
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ”
      '   Δ0                                '   Δ                                                                                                                                                               ”
                                                                                                                                                                                                    ”


                                                                                                                                                                   ”                      ”
                                                                                                                                                                                                ”



                                                                                                                                                                       ”




                                                                                   N
                               '   Δ



                                                                                                                                                                                   MILLCREEK STATION SUBDIVISION PLAT




                                                                       ROCKY MOUNTAIN POWER                  DOMINION ENERGY




                                       SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY PLANNING     LUMEN                 SALT LAKE COUNTY SURVEYOR       SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY ENGINEER                   REDCON INC
                                       COMMISSION                                                                                                                              LAND SURVEYORS




SOUTH SALT LAKE FIRE MARSHAL                                            APPROVAL AS TO FORM
                                       SALT LAKE COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT                     SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY COMMUNITY          CITY APPROVAL
                                                                                              DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LEGEND
      Ex
       G
           AS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 BOUNDARY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ROW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Ex COMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CENTERLINE
      SD


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LOT LINE
       15
           Ex

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EASEMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2" ELECTRICAL CONDUIT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           15 SD                 15" STORM DRAIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           6 SS                  6" SANITARY SEWER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           8W                    8" CULINARY WATER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           8 SW                  8" SECONDARY WATER
                                 Ex
                                    G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EXISTING STORM DRAIN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     XXXX                   CONTOUR MAJOR
                                   AS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TO REMAIN (PROTECT-IN-PLACE)
                  Ex




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          XXXX                   CONTOUR MINOR
                     1
                    0S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Ex SD        EXIST. STORM DRAIN
                      S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Ex SS        EXIST. SANITARY SEWER
                                   SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EXIST. CULINARY WATER
                                        15



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Ex W
  P




                                         Ex
UG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             X               X         X         EXIST. FENCE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Ex COMM
                                                                                     PROPERTY LINE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (XXXX)                 EXIST. CONTOUR MAJOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (XXXX)                 EXIST. CONTOUR MINOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           WM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 WATER METER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SIGN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 STREET LIGHT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SD                             EXIST. SD MH, INLET, AND COMBO
                                             Ex




                          E
                                             10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SS                   EXIST. SEWER MANHOLE
                                              SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EXIST. CULINARY VALVE, TEE & BEND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PROPOSED CATCH BASIN.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PROPERTY LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PROPOSED ELECTRICAL                                                                                                       CONNECT TO EXISTING STORM DRAIN LINE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EXIST. SECONDARY VALVE, TEE & BEND
                                                         Ex 15 SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SEE C4 FOR DETAILS                                                                                                                                                                                          PROPOSED 2.5' CURB & GUTTER                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EXIST. WATER BLOW-OFF
                                                                      Ex
                                                                      GA




                                                                                                                                              PROPOSED CURB & GUTTER TO TIE                                                                                                                                                          4244.57                                     4244.55                                             4244.51                                                                                                                          PER SOUTH SALT LAKE STD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    EXIST. FIRE HYDRANT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Ex COMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              4244.51
                                                                        S




                                                                                                                                                 INTO EXISTING CURB & GUTTER                                                                                                                                                         TBC                                         TBC                                                 TBC                                                                                      4244.56                                                   4244.79
                                                                    Ex 10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TBC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                STREET MONUMENT (TO BE SET)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TBC                                                       TBC                                                                      PROPERTY LINE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Ex COMM
                                                                                                          SAWCUT EXISTING PAVEMENT
                                                                      W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EXIST. STREET MONUMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ////   ////    ////     ////     ////      ////              ////         ////   ////    ////   ////        ////      ////       ////     ////    ////   ////      ////       ////   ////      ////     ////        ////




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ////


                                                                                                                   FOR UTILITY WORK                                                                                                                                                                                                                4244.57
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TBC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            sd                             EXIST. SD INLET & MH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4244.57                                                                                                           4244.78
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PROPOSED FIBER LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S                   EXIST. SEWER MH
                                                                      Ex




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TBC                                                                                                               TBC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ////
                                                                         1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SEE C4 FOR DETAILS                                                                                                                                                      EXIST. VALVE, TEE, & BEND
                                                                        0S




                                                                                                              PROPOSED SEWER                                                                                                                                               ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PROPOSED LANDSCAPE AREA.
                                                                          S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             4244.72                FILL AREA WITH ROCK MULCH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4244.64                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EXIST. FIRE HYDRANT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ////
                                                                                                             SEE C4 FOR DETAILS                                                                                         ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TBC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      UTA TRAX
                                                                                                                                                                                                        ////
                                                                                                                                                                                        ////                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TBC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4244.95
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ////   ////
                                                                                                                                                     ////
                                                                                                                                                                       ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4244.59                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               o XXXX.XX                 SPOT ELEVATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SW
                                                                                                                                    ////

                                                                                              ////
                                                                                                                 ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TBC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4244.76                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PROP COMMUNICATION JUNCTION BOX




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.00%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ////




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3.31%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2.00%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4244.72                                                                                             4.0'                                                                   TBC               STRIPE OUT THE EXISTING PARKING SPACE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               WM
                                                         Ex 15 SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                               ////
                                                                              ////




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SW
                                                                                                                                                                                               ////
                                                                                                                                                                               ////
                                                                                                                                                             ////
                                                                                                                                           ////                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4244.64
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2.00%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ////




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Ex COMM
                                                                                                                        ////
                                                                                ////




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SW
                                                                                                                   S
                                                                                                      ////
                                                                               Ex 10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4244.72
                                                                                                             S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Ex COMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PROPOSED BUILDING                                                                                                      3.5'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ////
                                                                                     W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ////

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (TYP)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ////




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          F.F.=4244.72                                                                         4.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ////
                                   PROPOSED SEWER TIE INTO
                                                   UGP




                                                                                                                                                                                                        ////
                                                                                                                                                                                        ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4 DOORS WITH 2 RESTROOMS &                                                                                                                                                                      PROPERTY LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ////




                                           EXISTING SEWER                                                                                                               ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4244.72




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1 BREAK ROOM
                                                                                                                                                      ////                                                                                                                                                             ////

                                                                                                                  ////
                                                                                                                                     ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SW      4244.88
                                                                                                   ////                                                                                                                                                          ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TBC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      4244.94

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     C C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.50%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ////




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2.00%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SW                                                                                     4244.69                                                                                                              3.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                 ////                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SW                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   X       X   X

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  E
                                                                                     ////




                                                                                                                                                                                 ////




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       C
                                                                                                                                                                ////

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.7'                                                 1.9'
                                                                                                                                              ////
                                                                                                                             ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4244.72
                                                                                            ////




                                                                                                          ////
                                                                                              Ex GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4244.66                                   4244.59
                                                                                                                                                                        PROPOSED WATER                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PROPOSED BUILDING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SW                                    TBC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          E           E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  X
                                                                                                                                                                       SEE C4 FOR DETAILS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4244.70
                                                          Ex 15 SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SW
                                                                                                                         Ex 10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PROPOSED 2.5' CURB & GUTTER TO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Ex COMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4244.85
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TBC                  TIE INTO EXIST CURB & GUTTER                                                                                                                                                                                                                               NEW ROCK LANDSCAPE
                                    SAWCUT EXISTING PAVEMENT
                                                                                                                               W




                                             FOR UTILITY WORK                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PROPOSED EDGE OF CONCRETE PAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  E
                                                   UGP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              E               E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EXISTING COMMUNICATION BOX                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TO MATCH EXIST SIDEWALK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4.0'                                                           4.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (PROTECT-IN-PLACE)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NEW CURB & GUTTER
                                                                                                                  Ex 10 SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EXISTING CATCH BASIN TO BE ABANDONED                                                                                                  UG                                                                                                     2.00%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        AND FILLED WITH CONCRETE.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3:1 MAX
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EXISTING CURB & GUTTER                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                MA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          X       X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3:1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EXISTING GRATE TO BE REPLACED WITH SOLID LID
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TO REMAIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Ex COMM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GRADE BREAK IN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PROPOSED EDGE OF                                                                                                                                         CONCRETE PAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CONCRETE PAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               UTA BUS ACCESS                               UG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              P
                                                                                             Ex GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EXISTING SIDEWALK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TO REMAIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PROPERTY LINE                                                               EXISTING STORM DRAIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TO REMAIN (PROTECT-IN-PLACE)                                                                                      FILL THE PIPE WITH CONCRETE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              e
                                                                                                                                                                Ex 10
                                                          Ex 15 SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3' TO NORTHEAST IN PLACE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               30" COMPACTED 3/4" MINUS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Ex COMM
                                                                                                             S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6" CONCRETE SIDEWALK                                            MATERIAL BASE OF GRAVEL
                                                                                                                                                                       W
                                                   UGP




                                                                                                      S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Ex 8 SS                                                                                    Ex 8 SS                                                                                   Ex 8 SS                                                                               Ex 8 SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  P                                                                                                                                                         PER MANUFACTURER                                            PER MANUFACTURER SPECIFICATIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                UG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SUB BASE THICKNESS SHALL EXTEND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TO FROST DEPTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           230 WEST (WASHINGTON STREET)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    BUILDING TYPICAL SECTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Ex COMM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     UG
                                                                                            Ex GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  e




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        T:\_2023\23-8011 - Operator Restroom Millcreek & West Jordan\design 23-8011\dwg - Millcreek Station\sheets\C3 - SITE PLAN - MSTA.dwg
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Ex 10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              UG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 NOTES:
                                                   UGP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Ex COMM
                                                           Ex 15 SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                        W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1. CONTOURS ARE SHOWN IN 1 FT INCREMENTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Ex COMM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2.   CONTRACTOR TO ASSURE PRE-FABRICATED RESTROOM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               e
                                                                                                                 Ex 10 SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                UG                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     STRUCTURE IS CLIMATIZED PER MANUFACTURERS SPECIFICATIONS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Ex COMM
                                                                                        Ex GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                OH
                                                   UGP




                                                                                                                                       Ex 15 SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Ex COMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          OH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Ex COMM
                                                                                                                  Ex 10 SS




                                                                                                               P
                                                                                                             OH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Ex COMM




                                                  C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GRAPHIC SCALE
                                                           Ex 12 SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            20                   0               10        20               40                             80
                                                                                       Ex GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Ex 10 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ( IN FEET )




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Ex COMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1 inch = 20 ft.

           ----           ----




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            100%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1:10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          FOCUS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          WE


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OPERATOR RELIEF ROOMS
           ----           ----
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                C3 - SITE PLAN - MSTA
           ----           ----
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          GL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ã
           ----           ----                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ENGINEERING AND SURVEYING, LLC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MILLCREEK STATION                                                                                            2/27/2024

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PRELIMINARY                                                                                                                                 6949 S. HIGH TECH DRIVE SUITE 200


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SITE PLAN
           ----           ----                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            MIDVALE, UTAH 84047 PH: (801) 352-0075                                                                                                                                                                                                          JW                                                                                                                                           23-8011
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION                                                                                                                                  www.focusutah.com                                                                                                               UTAH TRANSIT AUTHORITY
           ----           ----
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       C3
SURVEYOR S CER I ICA E
                         ·




LEGAL DESCRI      ION




                                        REDCON, INC.
                                                 LAND SURVEYING
                         SURVEY NO ES




 ASIS O       EARING
          ”
                                  '
                              ▲
                                  Δ
                                      '
                                  ▲
                                      Δ




    fo
e
                                          fo




                                               fo
         N



             ..............
                                PLANNING COMMISSION STAFF REPORT

MEETING DATE:         November 21, 2022
PROJECT NUMBER:       C24-00007
REQUEST:              A petition to the Planning Commission for a Conditional Use Permit to construct a relief station
                      at the Millcreek Station Park-and-Ride.
ADDRESS:              210 W 3300 S
PARCEL NUMBER:        15-25-404-016-0000
PROPERTY OWNER:       Utah Transit Authority (UTA)
APPLICANT:            UTA; Spencer Burgoyne, Manager of Property Administration
TYPE OF ITEM:         Administrative – Conditional Use Permit

                                               SYNOPSIS:
                                               On October 14, 2024, Utah Transit Authority (UTA) submitted a
                                               complete application for a Conditional Use Permit (CUP) to
                                               construct a 1,145 square-square-foot relief station at 210 W 3300 S
                                               in the TOD-Core zoning district. UTA will construct the relief room in
                                               the existing Millcreek Station Park-and-Ride, as highlighted by the
                                               red circle in the image to the left. The relief room is closed to the
                                               public and exclusively for UTA’s transit operators. A Park-and-Ride
                                               is a Conditional Use in the TOD-Core, and the expansion or
                                               alteration of the Park-and-Ride triggers this CUP review.

                                               The site houses the Millcreek TRAX station, associated bus
                                               connections, and patron park-and-ride. Currently, the property
                                               contains a temporary relief station that UTA installed several years
                                               ago and needs to be replaced for the well-being of UTA bus and
                                               train operators, mainly by providing a clean, safe, and permanent
                                               facility.

                                               Concurrently, UTA is in the process of consolidating the site’s five
                                               parcels into one lot through a Subdivision Plat (Project Number S24-
                                               00011). The Subdivision Plat will dedicate 3,587 square feet of the
                                               Washington Street right-of-way to South Salt Lake City.

                                               STAFF RECOMMENDATION:
                                               Staff recommends approval for a Conditional Use Permit to
                                               construct a relief station at the Millcreek Station Park-and-Ride.


    EXISTING ZONING             EXISTING LAND USE           SURROUNDING ZONING               SIZE OF PROPERTY
                                                              North – TOD-Core
                                                                                         93,331 square feet / 2.143
                                Park and Ride; TRAX           South – TOD-Core
       TOD-Core                                                                           acres after consolidation
                                      Station                  East – TOD-Core
                                                                                            and road dedication
                                                               West – TOD-Core




                                                        1
                                  PLANNING COMMISSION STAFF REPORT

   GENERAL INFORMATION:
Location:                             Parcel 1 – 3187 S. Washington Street
                                      Parcel 2 – 3197 S. Washington Street*
                                      Parcel 3 – 3205 S. Washington Street
                                      Parcel 4 – 3227 S. Washington Street
                                      Parcel 5 – 210 W. 3300 South

Parcel Size:                          Parcel 1 – 0.70 Acres (30,672 sq. ft.)
                                      Parcel 2 – 0.08 Acres (3,346 sq. ft.)*
                                      Parcel 3 – 0.66 Acres (28,722 sq. ft.)
                                      Parcel 4 – 0.37 Acres (16,053 sq. ft.)
                                      Parcel 5 – 0.42 Acres (18,125 sq. ft.)
                                      TOTAL – 2.22 Acres (96,918 sq. ft.)

                                      AFTER DEDICATION – 2.14 Acres (93,331 sq. ft.)
                                      *Proposed location of relief station prior to parcel consolidation.

Surrounding Land Use Districts:       North: TOD-Core
                                      South: TOD-Core
                                      East: TOD-Core
                                      West: TOD-Core

Figure 1: Existing Parcel Lines




                                                         2
Figure 2: Existing Condition Looking North on 3300 South




Figure 3: View of Proposed Location for Operator Relief Room




                                                           3
Figure 4: Site Plan




 PLANNING COMMISSION AUTHORITY:

17.11.030. Land use authority designations.

Pursuant to state law, the following administrative land use authority designations are made:

    A. Planning Commission. The Planning Commission is the land use authority on issues of: Subdivision and
       Subdivision Plat approval; vacating, altering or amending a Subdivision Plat; Conditional Use Permit
       applications; design review for Building Heights as established in this Title; design review for projects on Parcels
       where any portion of the Parcel abuts any residential district; and the issuance of a Building or demolition
       permit in a Historic and Landmark district.

  CONDITIONAL USE REVIEW STANDARD:

Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-507(2) sets forth the following standard of review for conditional uses by stating:
       (a) (i) A land use authority shall approve a conditional use if reasonable conditions are proposed, or can be
           imposed, to mitigate the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use in accordance
           with applicable standards.

            (ii) The requirement described in Subsection (2)(a)(i) to reasonably mitigate anticipated detrimental
            effects of the proposed conditional use does not require elimination of the detrimental effects.



                                                            4
        (b) If a land use authority proposes reasonable conditions on a proposed conditional use, the land use
            authority shall ensure that the conditions are stated on the record and reasonably relate to mitigating
            the anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use.

        (c) If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use cannot be substantially
            mitigated by the proposal or the imposition of reasonable conditions to achieve compliance with
            applicable standards, the land use authority may deny the conditional use.

 GENERAL PLAN CONSIDERATIONS:

Community Values Goal 3: Take advantage of opportunities relating to the City's location at the center of the
regional transportation, transit, trails, open space, library, recreation, and school systems to serve residents,
businesses, and visitors.

      Analysis: UTA will continue to maintain and operate the Millcreek TRAX Station as a regional transit hub by
      providing amenities to its employees. The long-term well-being of the transit operators will ensure that South
      Salt Lake remains the center of regional transportation.

 ORDINANCE ANALYSIS:


               Ordinance                                      Finding                         Condition of Approval
                                                  Title 17 – Land Use
17.05.020 – General Conditional Use Standards

In reviewing an Application for a Conditional Use Permit, the land use authority shall consider whether the
application:

   A. Identifies the maximum intensity of the proposed Development and Use;
   B. Complies with all provisions of the Code; and
   C. Compared to Permitted Uses and Development within the district, substantially mitigates the adverse impacts
   that are reasonably anticipated from the magnitude and intensity of the Development and Use, as proposed
   considering the following:

   1. The size and location of the site. The site is located at 210 W 3300 S. and
                                         contains 2.22 Acres (96,918 sq. ft.).

   2. Traffic generation, timing, and The proposed operator’s relief station will not
      nature of traffic impacts and the increase traffic beyond the current UTA
      existing condition and capacity patron traffic.
      of the Streets in the area.

   3. Utility demand and available        The City Engineer reviewed the application
      capacity, including stormwater      and found the site’s existing utility demand
      retention.                          and stormwater retention are not impacted.




                                                            5
4. Emergency vehicle access and       Emergency vehicle access is not impacted.
   anticipated average and peak
   day demand.



5. Location and amount of off-        The proposed location of the relief station
   Street parking.                    will remove three off-street parking spaces,
                                      but 96 off-street parking spaces remain.

6. Internal vehicular and pedestrian Not Applicable
   circulation system, including
   delivery vehicles, loading and
   unloading.

7. Fencing, Screening, and            The proposed location of the relief station   The Applicant shall provide a
   Landscaping to separate the        will remove a portion of the parking lot      landscape plan with their
   Conditional Use from adjoining     landscaping. The site plan submitted with the building permit application
   property and Uses.                 CUP application indicates that at least one   submittal, that is compliant
                                      mature tree will be removed.                  with the landscaping
                                                                                    requirements of the use in
                                                                                    the TOD-Core.

8. Building mass, bulk, design, and The proposed relief station is a prefabricated
   orientation, and the location of structure with a footprint of approximately
   Buildings on the site including 1,145 square feet. The final footprint may
   orientation to Buildings on      adjust depending on the structure's
   adjoining Lots or Parcels.       contracted manufacturer.

                                      In general, the relief station will contain two
                                      restrooms and one breakroom. The
                                      structure's location is central to the site, with
                                      direct access to the dedicated bus access.

9. Usable open space.                 Not Applicable

10. Signs and lighting.               Not Applicable

11. Physical design and            Not Applicable
    Compatibility with surrounding
    structures in terms of mass,
    Scale, style, design, and
    architectural detailing.

12. Noise, vibration, odors, steam,   Not Applicable
    or other factors that might
    adversely affect people and
    property off-site.




                                                        6
   13. Control of delivery and service Not Applicable
       vehicles, loading and unloading
       zones.

   14. Generation and Screening of                                                         All trash and waste shall be
       waste.                                                                              inside the relief station.

   15. Recycling program and pickup      Not Applicable
       areas.

   16. The potential adverse impacts     The relief room is intended solely for actively
       arising from the conduct of       working UTA operators and those waiting for
       patrons, guests, employees,       shift changes. At any given time, only a small
       occupants, or their affiliates.   number of people will use the facility.

   17. The impacts of the Use on public Not Applicable
       property and environmentally
       sensitive lands.

   18. Hours of operation, delivery, and The relief station is a private, restricted-
       activity.                         access facility available exclusively to UTA
                                         operators. Access is limited to UTA bus and
                                         TRAX operational hours.

   19. Special hazards arising from the Not Applicable
       Use or from its reasonably
       anticipated secondary effects,
       including its potential to attract
       criminal behavior.

   20. Demand for public infrastructure Sanitary sewer service is provided through         The Applicant shall provide
       or services.                     Mount Olympus Improvement District.                the city with a Will-Serve
                                                                                           Letter from Mount Olympus
                                                                                           Improvement District that
                                                                                           indicates the sanitary sewer
                                                                                           facilities can accommodate
                                                                                           the relief station and the
                                                                                           required size of sanitary
                                                                                           sewer connection.

17.05.050 – Standards Applicable to all Conditional Uses
 A. Use must be compatible in            The use is compatible with the permitted
     intensity of Use, Scale, and design uses of the TOD-Core district.
     with Permitted Uses in the district

 B. Must not compromise health,         The proposed use will not
    safety, or welfare of persons       compromise community health, safety, or
    employed within or use the          welfare.
    proposed development, those
    residing or working in the vicinity

                                                           7
     of the proposed use, or property
     or improvements in the vicinity of
     the proposed Use or Development.

 C. Not impose disproportionate          The proposed use will not impose
    burdens on the citizens of the city. disproportionate burdens on the citizens of
                                         South Salt Lake.

17.05.100 – Building Permits
 A. Issuance of a Conditional Use         A Building Permit is required.                   The Applicant shall apply for a
     Permit does not excuse an                                                             Building Permit after the
     Applicant from applying for and                                                       recordation of the pending
     obtaining a Building Permit.                                                          Millcreek Subdivision Plat.



 STAFF RECOMMENDATION:
Staff recommends approval for a Conditional Use Permit to construct an operator’s relief room at the Millcreek
Station Park-and-Ride located at 210 W 3300 S based upon the information submitted by the Applicant, the general
plan considerations, and ordinance analysis, and proposes the following Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and
Conditions of Approval.

Findings of Fact:

    1. On October 14, 2024, UTA submitted a complete application for a Conditional Use Permit to construct an
       operator’s relief room at the Millcreek Station Park-and-Ride.

    2. The subject location is 210 W 3300 S in the TOD-Core District.

    3. The purpose of the application is to permit the expanded use of a Park-and-Ride by constructing a relief station for
       UTA bus and TRAX operators.

    4. The Planning Commission is the land use authority over all Conditional Use Permits.

    5. The subject property contains 2.22 Acres (96,918 sq. ft.).

    6. UTA is concurrently consolidating the site’s five metes-and-bounds parcels into a one-lot subdivision.

    7. The proposed operator’s relief station will not increase traffic beyond the current UTA patron traffic.

    8. The City Engineer reviewed the application and found the site’s existing utility demand and stormwater
       retention are not impacted.

    9. The proposed relief station does not impact emergency vehicle access.

    10. The proposed location of the relief station will remove three off-street parking spaces, but 96 off-street
        parking spaces remain.

    11. The proposed location of the relief station will remove a portion of the parking lot landscaping. The site plan
        submitted with the CUP application indicates that at least one mature tree will be removed.



                                                            8
    12. The proposed relief station is a prefabricated structure with a footprint of approximately 1,145 square feet.
        The final footprint may adjust depending on the structure's contracted manufacturer.

    13. The relief station will contain two restrooms and one breakroom. The structure's location is central to the
        site, with direct access to the dedicated bus access.

    14. The relief room is intended solely for actively working UTA operators and those waiting for shift changes. At
        any given time, only a small number of people will use the facility.

    15. The relief station is a private, restricted-access facility available exclusively to UTA operators. Access is limited
        to UTA bus and TRAX operational hours.

    16. Sanitary sewer service is provided through Mount Olympus Improvement District.

    17. Issuance of a Conditional Use Permit does not excuse an Applicant from applying for and obtaining a Building
        Permit.

    18. SSLC Code Section 17.06.040 requires, prior to issuance of a Building Permit, that all new Development activity be
        on a legal Lot.

 Conclusions of Law:

    1.   The use, as conditioned, is consistent with the South Salt Lake City General Plan.

    2.   The use, as conditioned, is compatible in use, scale, and design with allowed uses in the TOD-Core Land Use
         District.

    3.   The use, as conditioned, does not compromise the health, safety, or welfare of persons employed within or
         using the proposed development; nor those residing or working in the vicinity of the proposed use or
         development; nor Property or improvements in the vicinity of the proposed use or development.

    4.   The use, as conditioned, does not disproportionately burden the citizens of South Salt Lake.

Conditions of Approval:

    1. Prior to submitting a building permit for the relief station, the Applicant shall record the Millcreek Station
       Subdivision Plat with the County as conditioned under permit S24-00011.

    2. The Applicant shall provide a landscape plan with their building permit application submittal, that is
       compliant with the landscaping requirements of the use in the TOD-Core.

    3. All trash and waste shall be inside the relief station.

    4. The Applicant shall provide the city with a Will-Serve Letter from Mount Olympus Improvement
       District that indicates the sanitary sewer facilities can accommodate the relief station and the required
       size of sanitary sewer connection.

    5. The Applicant shall comply with all applicable International Building and Fire Codes and obtain and
       complete a South Salt Lake Building Permit.

    6. The Applicant shall comply with all other provisions in Title 17 Land Use and Development.




                                                              9
      PLANNING COMMISSION OPTIONS:
Option 1: Approval
Move to approve the application for a Conditional Use Permit to construct an operator’s relief room in the
Millcreek Station Park-and-Ride at 210 W 3300 S based on the Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and
Conditions of Approval as outlined in the staff report.

Option 2: Denial
Move to deny the application for a Conditional Use Permit to construct an operator’s relief room in the Millcreek
Station Park-and-Ride at 210 W 3300 S based on the reasoning set forth on the record.

Option 3: Continuance
Move to table the decision on the application for a Conditional Use Permit to construct an operator’s relief room in
the Millcreek Station Park-and-Ride at 210 W 3300 S to a date certain to allow the Applicant and Staff time to
respond to specific inquiries or concerns raised by the Planning Commission, or to allow the Planning Commission
more time to consider the proposal.

Attachments:
     1. Conditional Use Permit C24-00007
     2. Proposed Site Plan




                                                          10
 WHEN RECORDED PLEASE RETURN TO:

 SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY
 220 E. MORRIS AVE SUITE 200
 SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84115


                                   CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT

Location: 210 W. 3300 South
Use: Park-and-Ride
Zone: TOD Core
APN: 15-25-404-016-0000
Fee Title Owner: Utah Transit Authority
File Number: C24-00007
Date: November 21, 2024

 LEGAL DESCRIPTION
BEG S 89^53'45" W 61.875 FT & N 0^06'57" E 31 FT FR SE COR LOT 2, BLK 34, 10 AC PLAT A, BIG
FIELD SUR; N 0^06'57" E 129.07 FT; N 89^32'33" W 132 FT; S 0^06'57" W 136.27 FT; S 88^26'30" E
101.50 FT; N 01^29'15" E 10 FT; S 88^30'45" E 30.27 M OR L TO BEG.


Permit Issued to:    Utah Transit Authority
                     669 West 200 South
                     Salt Lake City, UT 84101

Findings of Fact:

   1. On October 14, 2024, UTA submitted a complete application for a Conditional Use Permit
      to construct an operator’s relief room at the Millcreek Station Park-and-Ride.

   2. The subject location is 210 W 3300 S in the TOD-Core District.

   3. The purpose of the application is to permit the expanded use of a Park-and-Ride by
      constructing a relief station for UTA bus and TRAX operators.

   4. The Planning Commission is the land use authority over all Conditional Use Permits.

   5. The subject property contains 2.22 Acres (96,918 sq. ft.).

   6. UTA is concurrently consolidating the site’s five metes-and-bounds parcels into a one-lot
      subdivision.

   7. The proposed operator’s relief station will not increase traffic beyond the current UTA

                                                1
        patron traffic.

   8. The City Engineer reviewed the application and found the site’s existing utility demand and
      stormwater retention are not impacted.

   9. The proposed relief station does not impact emergency vehicle access.

   10. The proposed location of the relief station will remove three off-street parking spaces, but
       96 off-street parking spaces remain.

   11. The proposed location of the relief station will remove a portion of the parking lot
       landscaping. The site plan submitted with the CUP application indicates that at least one
       mature tree will be removed.

   12. The proposed relief station is a prefabricated structure with a footprint of approximately
       1,145 square feet. The final footprint may adjust depending on the structure's contracted
       manufacturer.

   13. The relief station will contain two restrooms and one breakroom. The structure's location is
       central to the site, with direct access to the dedicated bus access.

   14. The relief room is intended solely for actively working UTA operators and those waiting for
       shift changes. At any given time, only a small number of people will use the facility.

   15. The relief station is a private, restricted-access facility available exclusively to UTA
       operators. Access is limited to UTA bus and TRAX operational hours.

   16. Sanitary sewer service is provided through Mount Olympus Improvement District.

   17. Issuance of a Conditional Use Permit does not excuse an Applicant from applying for and
       obtaining a Building Permit.

   18. SSLC Code Section 17.06.040 requires, prior to issuance of a Building Permit, that all new
       Development activity be on a legal Lot.

Conclusions of Law:

   1.    The use, as conditioned, is consistent with the South Salt Lake City General Plan.

   2.    The use, as conditioned, is compatible in use, scale, and design with allowed uses in the
         TOD-Core Land Use District.

   3.    The use, as conditioned, does not compromise the health, safety, or welfare of persons
         employed within or using the proposed development; nor those residing or working in the
         vicinity of the proposed use or development; nor Property or improvements in the vicinity
         of the proposed use or development.
                                                 2
   4.   The use, as conditioned, does not disproportionately burden the citizens of South Salt
        Lake.

Conditions of Approval:

   1. Prior to submitting a building permit for the relief station, the Applicant shall record the
      Millcreek Station Subdivision Plat with the County as conditioned under permit S24-00011.

   2. The Applicant shall provide a landscape plan with their building permit application
      submittal, that is compliant with the landscaping requirements of the use in the TOD-Core.

   3. All trash and waste shall be inside the relief station.

   4. The Applicant shall provide the city with a Will-Serve Letter from Mount Olympus
      Improvement District that indicates the sanitary sewer facilities can accommodate the
      relief station and the required size of sanitary sewer connection.

   5. The Applicant shall comply with all applicable International Building and Fire Codes and
      obtain and complete a South Salt Lake Building Permit.

   6. The Applicant shall comply with all other provisions in Title 17 Land Use and Development.

Exhibits (available on file with South Salt Lake City Community Development Department):

EXHIBIT A: CUP Application
EXHIBIT B: Property Affidavit
EXHIBIT C: Site Plan
EXHIBIT D: Staff Report

FOR SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY:                             FOR THE APPLICANT:



Community Development                                 Utah Transit Authority




                                                  3
                                                                      OPERATOR RELIEF ROOMS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GENERAL NOTES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PREPARED FOR:




                                              RAILROAD
                                                                                                       UTAH TRANSIT AUTHORITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.  CONTRACTOR TO FIELD VERIFY HORIZONTAL AND VERTICAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LOCATIONS OF ALL EXISTING UTILITIES PRIOR TO COMMENCEMENT OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CONSTRUCTION, AND REPORT ANY DISCREPANCIES TO THE ENGINEER.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LOCATED IN:                                                                                                         2.   ANY AND ALL DISCREPANCIES IN THESE PLANS ARE TO BE BROUGHT TO




                                   300 WEST
                                                                                                   SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, UT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        THE ENGINEER'S ATTENTION PRIOR TO COMMENCEMENT OF CONSTRUCTION.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3.  ALL CONSTRUCTION SHALL ADHERE TO SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY
                         I - 15                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         STANDARD PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.

                                                         3300 SOUTH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4.   ALL UTILITIES AND ROAD IMPROVEMENTS SHOWN ON THE PLANS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        HEREIN SHALL BE CONSTRUCTED USING REFERENCE TO SURVEY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CONSTRUCTION STAKES PLACED UNDER THE SUPERVISION OF A
                    PROJECT LOCATION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PROFESSIONAL LICENSED SURVEYOR WITH A CURRENT LICENSE ISSUED BY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        THE STATE OF UTAH. ANY IMPROVEMENTS INSTALLED BY ANY OTHER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VERTICAL OR HORIZONTAL REFERENCE WILL NOT BE ACCEPTED OR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CERTIFIED BY THE ENGINEER OF RECORD.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5.  THIS DRAWING SET IS SCALED TO BE PRINTED ON A 22" X 34" SIZE OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PAPER (ARCH. D). IF PRINTED ON A SMALLER PAPER SIZE, THE DRAWING WILL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        NOT BE TO SCALE AND SHOULD NOT BE USED TO SCALE MEASUREMENTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        FROM THE PAPER DRAWING. ALSO USE CAUTION, AS THERE MAY BE TEXT OR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DETAIL THAT MAY BE OVERLOOKED DUE TO THE SMALL SIZE OF THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DRAWING.
              VICINITY MAP                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              NOTICE
              NTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        BEFORE PROCEEDING WITH THIS WORK, THE CONTRACTOR SHALL CAREFULLY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CHECK AND VERIFY ALL CONDITIONS, QUANTITIES, DIMENSIONS, AND GRADE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ELEVATIONS, AND SHALL REPORT ALL DISCREPANCIES TO THE ENGINEER.




                    Sheet List Table
       Sheet Number           Sheet Title                                                                                                                                                                                    ////   ////   ////   ////   ////   ////   ////   ////   ////   ////   ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          BUILDING LOCATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ENGINEER'S NOTES TO CONTRACTOR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ////
                                                                                                                                    SITE BENCHMARK
                MILLCREEK STATION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.   THE EXISTENCE AND LOCATION OF ANY UNDERGROUND UTILITY PIPES, CONDUITS OR STRUCTURES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ////
                                                                                                                                    ELEVATION = 4244.65'   ////
                                                                                                                                                                                 ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                    ////



                                                                                                                          ////      EXIST. SSMH
                                                                                                                                           ////                                                                                                                                                                     ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SHOWN ON THESE PLANS WERE OBTAINED BY A SEARCH OF THE AVAILABLE RECORDS, TO THE BEST OF
             C1                 COVER
                                                                                                         ////


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OUR KNOWLEDGE, THERE ARE NO EXISTING UTILITIES EXCEPT AS SHOWN ON THESE PLANS. THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                      ////
                                                                                                                                                                                      ////




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ////
                                                                                                                                                              ////
                                                                                                                                             ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    WM
                                                                                                                            ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CONTRACTOR IS REQUIRED TO TAKE DUE PRECAUTIONARY MEASURES TO PROTECT THE UTILITY LINES




                                                                                                ////
                                                                                                           ////




           C1.1            GENERAL NOTES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SHOWN ON THESE DRAWINGS. THE CONTRACTOR FURTHER ASSUMES ALL LIABILITY AND RESPONSIBILITY




                                                                                                         S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                       ////
                                                                                                                                                                                       ////
                                                                                                                                                                ////
                                                                                                                                              ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        FOR THE UTILITY PIPES, CONDUITS OR STRUCTURES SHOWN OR NOT SHOWN ON THESE DRAWINGS. IF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ////




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ////
                                                                                                                                 ////




            C2             REMOVAL PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                             ////

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        UTILITY LINES ARE ENCOUNTERED DURING CONSTRUCTION THAT ARE NOT IDENTIFIED BY THESE PLANS,
                                                                                                                ////
                                                                                                                                                                                             ////
                                                                                                                                                                      ////


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CONTRACTOR SHALL NOTIFY ENGINEER IMMEDIATELY.
                                                                                                                                                    ////




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ////
                                                                                                                                    ////
                                                                                                                   ////




                                                                                                  ////
            C3                 SITE PLAN




                                                                                                                                                            230 WEST (WASHINGTON STREET)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2.  CONTRACTOR AGREES TO ASSUME SOLE AND COMPLETE RESPONSIBILITY FOR JOB SITE CONDITIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DURING THE COURSE OF CONSTRUCTION OF THIS PROJECT, INCLUDING SAFETY OF ALL PERSONS AND
            C4               UTILITY PLAN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PROPERTY; THAT THIS REQUIREMENT SHALL APPLY CONTINUOUSLY AND NOT BE LIMITED TO NORMAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        WORKING HOURS; AND THAT THE CONTRACTOR SHALL DEFEND, INDEMNIFY AND HOLD THE CITY, THE
         APPENDIX       STANDARD DRAWINGS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OWNER, AND THE ENGINEER HARMLESS FROM ANY AND ALL LIABILITY, REAL OR ALLEGED, IN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CONNECTION WITH THE PERFORMANCE OF WORK ON THIS PROJECT, EXCEPTING FOR LIABILITY ARISING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        FROM THE SOLE NEGLIGENCE OF THE OWNER OR THE ENGINEER.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       UTA TRAX
                                                                                                         S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3.   UNAUTHORIZED CHANGES & USES: THE ENGINEER PREPARING THESE PLANS WILL NOT BE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        RESPONSIBLE FOR, OR LIABLE FOR, UNAUTHORIZED CHANGES TO OR USES OF THESE PLANS. ALL CHANGES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TO THE PLANS MUST BE IN WRITING AND MUST BE APPROVED BY THE PREPARER OF THESE PLANS.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4.   ALL CONTOUR LINES SHOWN ON THE PLANS ARE AN INTERPRETATION BY CAD SOFTWARE OF FIELD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            e                                                           SURVEY WORK PERFORMED BY A LICENSED SURVEYOR. DUE TO THE POTENTIAL DIFFERENCES IN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        INTERPRETATION OF CONTOURS BY VARIOUS TYPES OF GRADING SOFTWARE BY OTHER ENGINEERS OR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CONTRACTORS, FOCUS DOES NOT GUARANTEE OR WARRANTY THE ACCURACY OF SUCH LINEWORK. FOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        THIS REASON, FOCUS WILL NOT PROVIDE ANY GRADING CONTOURS IN CAD FOR ANY TYPE OF USE BY THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CONTRACTOR. SPOT ELEVATIONS AND PROFILE ELEVATIONS SHOWN IN THE DESIGN DRAWINGS GOVERN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ALL DESIGN INFORMATION ILLUSTRATED ON THE APPROVED CONSTRUCTION SET. CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EXPERTISE AND JUDGMENT BY THE CONTRACTOR IS ANTICIPATED BY THE ENGINEER TO COMPLETE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        BUILD-OUT OF THE INTENDED IMPROVEMENTS.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      T:\_2023\23-8011 - Operator Restroom Millcreek & West Jordan\design 23-8011\dwg - Millcreek Station\sheets\C1 - COVER - MSTA.dwg
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CONTACTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ENGINEER & SURVEYOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    FOCUS ENGINEERING & SURVEYING, LLC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    6949 S. HIGH TECH DRIVE SUITE 200
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    MIDVALE, UTAH 84047
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (801) 352-0075
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PROJECT MANAGER: JASON WATSON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SURVEY MANAGER: JUSTIN LUNDBERG



                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SITE MAP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GRAPHIC SCALE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          20        0      10     20             40                   80




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ( IN FEET )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1 inch = 20 ft.




----   ----




                                                                         FOCUS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  WE                                                                                                      N/A


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  OPERATOR RELIEF ROOMS
----   ----
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                C1 - COVER - MSTA
----   ----
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GL
                                                                                                     ã
----   ----                                                             ENGINEERING AND SURVEYING, LLC
                                                                            6949 S. HIGH TECH DRIVE SUITE 200
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                MILLCREEK STATION                                                    2/28/2024




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                COVER SHEET
----   ----                                                               MIDVALE, UTAH 84047 PH: (801) 352-0075                                                                                                                                                                                                                  JW                                                                                                     23-8011
                                                                                      www.focusutah.com                                                                                                                                            UTAH TRANSIT AUTHORITY
----   ----
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         C1
COMPLIANCE                                                                                                MATERIALS                                                                                         GRADING/SOIL
1.    ALL WORK TO CONFORM TO UTA, UDOT, CITY, AND APWA STANDARDS, SPECIFICATIONS, AND                     1. SITE CONCRETE SHALL BE A MINIMUM 6.5 BAG MIX, 4000 P.S.I @ 28 DAYS, 4" MAXIMUM SLUMP WITH 5%   1.   SITE GRADING SHALL BE PERFORMED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THESE PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
      REQUIREMENTS.                                                                                          TO 7% AIR ENTRAINMENT, UNLESS SPECIFIED OTHERWISE. SEE SPECIFICATIONS.                         2.   ALL EXCAVATED OR FILLED AREAS SHALL BE COMPACTED 95% OF MODIFIED PROCTOR MAXIMUM
2.    ALL CONSTRUCTION AND MATERIALS SHALL BE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THESE CONTRACT DOCUMENTS                 A. SLABS-ON-GRADE WILL BE TYPICALLY SCORED (1/4 THE DEPTH) AT INTERVALS NOT TO EXCEED THEIR            DENSITY PER ASTM TEST D-1557, EXCEPT UNDER BUILDING FOUNDATIONS WHERE IT SHALL BE 98%
      AND THE MOST RECENT, ADOPTED EDITIONS OF THE FOLLOWING: INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE                    WIDTH OR 12 TIMES THEIR DEPTH, WHICHEVER IS LESS. SCORING WILL BE PLACED TO PREVENT                 MINIMUM OF MAXIMUM DENSITY. MOISTURE CONTENT AT TIME OF PLACEMENT SHALL NOT EXCEED
      (IBC), THE INTERNATIONAL PLUMBING CODE, STATE DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS, APWA MANUAL                  RANDOM CRACKING. FULL DEPTH EXPANSION JOINTS WILL BE PLACED AGAINST ANY OBJECT DEEMED               2% ABOVE NOR 3% BELOW OPTIMUM.
      OF STANDARD PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.                                                                  TO BE FIXED, CHANGES IN DIRECTION, AND AT EQUAL INTERVALS NOT TO EXCEED 50 FEET.               3.   SITE CLEARING SHALL INCLUDE THE LOCATION AND REMOVAL OF ALL UNDERGROUND TANKS, PIPES,
3.    ALL CONSTRUCTION SHALL BE AS SHOWN ON THESE PLANS. ANY REVISIONS MUST HAVE PRIOR                    B. CONCRETE WATERWAYS, CURBWALLS, MOWSTRIPS, CURB AND GUTTER, ETC. WILL TYPICALLY BE                   VALVES, ETC. OR FILLING WITH FLOWABLE FILL AS DETERMINED BY THE ENGINEER.
      WRITTEN APPROVAL. IF CONFLICTS ARE NOTED, CONTRACTOR SHALL CONTACT ENGINEER PRIOR TO                   SCORED (1/4 THE DEPTH) AT INTERVALS NOT TO EXCEED 12 FEET AND HAVE FULL DEPTH EXPANSION        4.   ALL EXISTING VALVES, MANHOLES, ETC. SHALL BE RAISED OR LOWERED TO GRADE AS REQUIRED.
      START OF CONSTRUCTION.                                                                                 JOINTS AT EQUAL SPACING NOT TO EXCEED 50 FEET.
                                                                                                          C. UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED, ALL SLABS-ON-GRADE WILL HAVE A MINIMUM 8" TURNED-DOWN EDGE TO

PERMITTING AND INSPECTIONS                                                                                   HELP CONTROL FROST HEAVE.
                                                                                                          D. UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED, A 6" LAYER OF PORTLAND CEMENT CONCRETE (9" FOR BUS TRAFFIC             GENERAL CONSTRUCTION NOTES
                                                                                                             AREAS) SHALL BE PLACED OVER A MINIMUM OF 6" UNTREATED ROAD BASE OVER A WELL COMPACTED
1.    PRIOR TO STARTING CONSTRUCTION, THE CONTRACTOR SHALL PAY FOR AND ENSURE ALL REQUIRED                   (95%) SUBGRADE. UNTREATED ROAD BASE SHALL REACH TO FROST DEPTH WHICH IS ASSUMED AT 30".        1.  CONTRACTOR SHALL COORDINATE WITH ALL GOVERNING AGENCIES FOR ALL PERMITS AND BONDS
      PERMITS AND APPROVALS HAVE BEEN OBTAINED. NO CONSTRUCTION OR FABRICATION SHALL BEGIN                E. ALL EXPOSED SURFACES WILL HAVE A TEXTURED FINISH, RUBBED OR BROOMED. ANY "PLASTERING"              REQUIRED FOR CONSTRUCTION. CONTRACTOR SHALL ALSO BE RESPONSIBLE FOR INSPECTION AND
      UNTIL THE CONTRACTOR HAS RECEIVED THOROUGHLY REVIEWED PLANS AND OTHER DOCUMENTS                        OF NEW CONCRETE WILL BE DONE WHILE IT IS STILL "GREEN".                                            REVIEW OF WORK.
      APPROVED BY ALL OF THE PERMITTING AUTHORITIES. UTA WILL PAY FOR IMPACT FEES.                        F. ALL JOINTS (CONTROL, CONSTRUCTION, OR EXPANSION, ETC.) WILL BE SEALED WITH A ONE PART          2. CONTRACTOR IS RESPONSIBLE FOR ALL PROJECT SAFETY, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
2.    CONTRACTOR IS RESPONSIBLE FOR SCHEDULING AND NOTIFYING ENGINEER OR INSPECTING                                                                                                                             TRENCHING AND SHORING, TRAFFIC CONTROL, AND SECURITY.
                                                                                                             POLYURETHANE SEALANT (SEE SPECIFICATIONS).
      AUTHORITY 48 HOURS IN ADVANCE OF COVERING UP ANY PHASE OF CONSTRUCTION REQUIRING                                                                                                                      3. CONTRACTOR SHALL BE RESPONSIBLE TO MAINTAIN UP-TO-DATE "AS-BUILT" DRAWINGS THROUGHOUT
                                                                                                          G. CONCRETE SIDEWALK SHALL MEET SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY STANDARDS. SEE STANDARD PLAN NO. 231
      OBSERVATION.                                                                                                                                                                                              THE PROJECT. THESE DRAWINGS SHALL BE PROVIDED TO THE OWNER UPON COMPLETION OF THE
                                                                                                             SP.
3.    ANY WORK IN THE PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY WILL REQUIRE PERMITS FROM THE APPROPRIATE CITY,                                                                                                                       PROJECT.
      COUNTY, OR STATE AGENCY CONTROLLING THE ROAD AND WITH APPROPRIATE INSPECTIONS.                                                                                                                        4. CONTRACTOR IS CAUTIONED THAT THE LOCATION AND ELEVATION OF EXISTING UTILITIES AS SHOWN
                                                                                                          2. ASPHALTIC CONCRETE PAVEMENT SHALL BE A MINIMUM 3" OVER 8" OF COMPACTED (95%) ROAD BASE             ON THESE DRAWINGS IS BASED ON RECORDS OF UTILITY COMPANIES AND WHERE POSSIBLE,
                                                                                                             OVER 8" GRANULAR BORROW OVER PROPERLY PREPARED AND COMPACTED (95%) SUBGRADE FOR CAR                MEASUREMENTS TAKEN IN THE FIELD. THE INFORMATION IS NOT TO BE RELIED ON AS EXACT OR
                                                                                                             TRAFFIC, AND A MINIMUM 7" ASPHALTIC CONCRETE OVER 9" OF COMPACTED (95%) ROAD BASE OVER             COMPLETE. CONTRACTOR SHALL BE RESPONSIBLE FOR LOCATING AND PROTECTING ALL UTILITIES
COORDINATION AND VERIFICATION                                                                                10" OF GRANULAR BORROW OVER A TENSAT TX 160 GEOGRID (OR AN APPROVED EQUIVALENT) OVER               AND SERVICE LATERALS AND FOR REPAIRING ALL DAMAGE THAT OCCURS TO THE UTILITY DURING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                CONSTRUCTION.
                                                                                                             PROPERLY PREPARED AND COMPACTED (95%) SUBGRADE FOR BUS TRAFFIC, UNLESS OTHERWISE
1.    ALL DIMENSIONS, GRADES AND UTILITY DESIGNS SHOWN ON THE PLANS SHALL BE VERIFIED BY THE                 NOTED. SEE SPECIFICATIONS.                                                                     5. THE CONTRACTOR WILL VERIFY LOCATIONS OF UTILITIES IN THE FIELD BY POTHOLING A MINIMUM 100
      CONTRACTOR PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION. CONTRACTOR SHALL NOTIFY ENGINEER OF ANY                           A. ASPHALT COMPACTION SHALL BE A MINIMUM 96% (MARSHALL DESIGN).                                       FEET AHEAD OF PIPELINE CONSTRUCTION TO AVOID CONFLICTS WITH DESIGN PIPELINE GRADE AND
      DISCREPANCIES PRIOR TO PROCEEDING WITH CONSTRUCTION FOR NECESSARY PLAN OR GRADE                     B. SURFACE COARSE SHALL BE 1/2" MINUS. MIX DESIGN TO BE SUBMITTED FOR APPROVAL AT LEAST TWO           ALIGNMENT. IF A CONFLICT ARISES RESULTING FROM THE CONTRACTORS NEGLIGENCE TO POTHOLE
      CHANGES. NO EXTRA COMPENSATION SHALL BE PAID TO THE CONTRACTOR FOR WORK HAVING TO BE                   WEEKS PRIOR TO ANTICIPATED PAVING SCHEDULE.                                                        UTILITIES, THE CONTRACTOR SHALL BE REQUIRED TO RESOLVE THE CONFLICT WITHOUT ADDITIONAL
      REDONE DUE TO DIMENSIONS OR GRADES SHOWN INCORRECTLY ON THESE PLANS, IF NOT VERIFIED                C. ASPHALT COMPACTION PAVEMENT TO BE A 1/4" ABOVE LIP OF ALL GUTTER (EXCEPT SPILL AND                 COST OR CLAIM TO OWNER.
      AND NOTIFICATION OF CONFLICTS HAVE NOT BEEN BROUGHT TO THE ATTENTION OF THE ENGINEER.                  COLLAR CURB) AFTER COMPACTION.                                                                 6. CONTRACTOR SHALL TAKE THE NECESSARY MEASURES TO PROTECT ALL FACILITIES (I.E PIPES,
2.    CONTRACTOR MUST VERIFY ALL EXISTING CONDITIONS BEFORE BIDDING AND BRING UP ANY                      D. THICKNESS OVER 3" WILL BE LAID IN TWO LIFTS WITH THE FIRST LIFT BEING AN APPROVED 3/4" MINUS       STRUCTURES, ETC.) DURING CONSTRUCTION UNTIL THE DESIGN GRADE AND COVER HAS BEEN
      QUESTIONS BEFOREHAND. NO ALLOWANCE WILL BE MADE FOR DISCREPANCIES OR OMISSIONS THAT                    DESIGN.                                                                                            ATTAINED AND WORK HAS BEEN ACCEPTED.
      CAN BE EASILY OBSERVED.                                                                                                                                                                               7. CONTRACTOR SHALL VERIFY ALL EXISTING PROJECT MONUMENTS AND CONTROL AND NOTIFY
3.    CONTRACTOR TO COORDINATE WITH ALL OTHER DISCIPLINES, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO:
      LANDSCAPE PLANS, SITE ELECTRICAL, SITE LIGHTING, AND ELECTRICAL SERVICE TO THE BUILDING(S),         UTILITIES                                                                                             ENGINEER OF ANY PROBLEMS PRIOR TO START OF CONSTRUCTION. CONTRACTOR SHALL MAINTAIN OR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                RESTORE ALL MONUMENTS AND MONUMENT REFERENCE MARKS WITHIN THE PROJECT SITE.
      ETC., NOT SHOWN ON CIVIL PLANS.                                                                                                                                                                       8. CONTRACTOR SHALL BE RESPONSIBLE FOR DUST AND EROSION CONTROL 24 HOURS PER DAY UNTIL
                                                                                                          1.  THE LOCATIONS OF UNDERGROUND FACILITIES SHOWN ON THESE PLANS ARE BASED ON FIELD
                                                                                                              SURVEYS AND LOCAL UTILITY COMPANY RECORDS. IT SHALL BE THE CONTRACTOR'S FULL                      VEGETATION IS ESTABLISHED, AND MAINTAIN UNIMPEDED ACCESS ROAD MAINTENANCE IN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                ACCORDANCE WITH CITY STANDARDS.
                                                                                                              RESPONSIBILITY TO CONTACT THE VARIOUS UTILITY COMPANIES EITHER DIRECT OR THROUGH BLUE
                                                                                                                                                                                                            9. CONTRACTOR SHALL BE RESPONSIBLE FOR ALL TEMPORARY TRAFFIC CONTROL DURING THE
SAFETY AND PROTECTION                                                                                         STAKE TO LOCATE THEIR FACILITIES PRIOR TO STARTING CONSTRUCTION.
                                                                                                          2. CONTRACTOR TO VERIFY BY POTHOLING BOTH THE VERTICAL AND HORIZONTAL LOCATION OF ALL                 CONSTRUCTION OF THE PROJECT, UNTIL WORK IS APPROVED AND ACCEPTED BY OWNER.
                                                                                                                                                                                                            10. CONTRACTOR WILL BE RESPONSIBLE FOR THE COST AND SCHEDULING OF ALL QUALITY CONTROL
1.    CONTRACTOR IS SOLELY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE MEANS AND METHODS OF CONSTRUCTION.                             EXISTING UTILITIES PRIOR TO INSTALLING ANY NEW LINES. NO ADDITIONAL COMPENSATION SHALL BE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                INSPECTIONS, TESTING, AND SAMPLING AS OUTLINED IN THE PROJECT SPECIFICATIONS.
2.    CONTRACTOR IS RESPONSIBLE FOR THE SAFETY OF THE PROJECT AND SHALL MEET ALL OSHA                         PAID TO THE CONTRACTOR FOR DAMAGE AND REPAIR TO THESE FACILITIES CAUSED BY THEIR WORK
                                                                                                              FORCE.                                                                                        11. UTA WILL PROVIDE QUALITY ASSURANCE FOR PROJECT.
      REQUIREMENTS.
3.    CONTRACTOR IS RESPONSIBLE FOR CONFORMING TO LOCAL AND FEDERAL CODES GOVERNING                       3. CONTRACTOR MUST START AT LOW END OF ALL NEW GRAVITY UTILITY LINES. NO EXTRA
      SHORING AND BRACING OF EXCAVATIONS AND TRENCHES, AND FOR THE PROTECTION OF WORKERS                      COMPENSATION IS TO BE PAID TO THE CONTRACTOR FOR WORK HAVING TO BE REDONE DUE TO

4.
      AND PUBLIC.
      CONTRACTOR SHALL TAKE ALL MEASURES NECESSARY TO PROTECT ALL EXISTING PUBLIC AND
                                                                                                              FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH THESE REQUIREMENTS.
                                                                                                          4. CONTRACTOR IS TO VERIFY LOCATION, DEPTH, SIZE, TYPE, AND OUTSIDE DIAMETERS OF UTILITIES IN
                                                                                                                                                                                                            UTILITY CONTACTS
      PRIVATE PROPERTY, ROADWAYS, AND UTILITY IMPROVEMENTS. DAMAGE TO EXISTING                                THE FIELD BY POTHOLING A MINIMUM OF 300 FEET AHEAD, PIPELINE CONSTRUCTION TO AVOID
      IMPROVEMENTS CAUSED BY THE CONTRACTOR MUST BE REPAIRED BY THE CONTRACTOR AT THEIR                       CONFLICTS WITH DESIGNED PIPELINE GRADE AND ALIGNMENT. EXISTING UTILITY INFORMATION
      OWN EXPENSE TO THE SATISFACTION OF THE OWNER OF SAID IMPROVEMENTS.                                      SHOWN ON PLANS OR OBTAINED FROM UTILITY COMPANIES OR BLUE STAKED MUST BE ASSUMED AS
5.    CONTRACTOR IS REQUIRED TO KEEP ALL CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES WITHIN THE APPROVED PROJECT                  APPROXIMATE, REQUIRING FIELD VERIFICATION.
      LIMITS. THIS INCLUDES, BUT IS NOT LIMITED TO, VEHICLE AND EQUIPMENT STAGING, MATERIAL               5. FIRE SERVICE LINES TO BE CONSTRUCTED IN ACCORDANCE WITH LOCAL GOVERNING MUNICIPALITY
      STORAGE, AND LIMITS OF TRENCH EXCAVATION.                                                               STANDARD AND SPECIFICATIONS.
6.    IT IS THE CONTRACTOR'S RESPONSIBILITY TO OBTAIN PERMISSION AND/OR EASEMENTS FROM THE                6. STORM DRAIN TO BE CONSTRUCTED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE GOVERNING MUNICIPALITY
      APPROPRIATE GOVERNMENT AGENCY AND/OR INDIVIDUAL PROPERTY OWNER(S) FOR WORK OR                           STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
      STAGING OUTSIDE OF THE PROJECT LIMITS.                                                              7. ALL STORM DRAIN LINES AND IRRIGATION CONDUITS SHALL BE INSTALLED WITH WATER TIGHT JOINTS
7.    CONTRACTOR SHALL PROVIDE BARRICADES, SIGNS, FLASHERS, OTHER EQUIPMENT AND FLAG PERSONS                  AND CONNECTIONS.
      NECESSARY TO INSURE THE SAFETY OF WORKERS AND VISITORS. ALL CONSTRUCTION SIGNING.                   8. ALL STORM DRAIN PIPE PENETRATIONS INTO BOXES SHALL BE CONSTRUCTED WITH WATER TIGHT
      BARRICADING, AND TRAFFIC DELINEATION SHALL CONFORM TO THE "MANUAL ON UNIFORM TRAFFIC                    SEALS ON THE OUTSIDE AND GROUTED SMOOTH WITH A NON-SHRINK GROUT ON THE INSIDE.
      CONTROL DEVICES", LATEST EDITION.                                                                       CONDUITS SHALL BE CUT OFF FLUSH WITH THE INSIDE OF T HE BOX.
8.    CONTRACTOR SHALL COMPLY WITH LOCAL NOISE ORDINANCE STANDARDS.                                       9. NO CHANGE IN THE DESIGN OF UTILITIES AS SHOWN WILL BE MADE BY THE CONTRACTOR WITHOUT
9.    CONTRACTOR IS RESPONSIBLE FOR DUST CONTROL ACCORDING TO GOVERNING AGENCY STANDARDS.                     THE WRITTEN APPROVAL OF THE GOVERNING MUNICIPALITY, OR OTHER AUTHORITY HAVING
10.   CONTRACTOR SHALL TAKE ALL NECESSARY AND PROPER PRECAUTIONS TO PROTECT ADJACENT                          JURISDICTION OVER THAT UTILITY.
      PROPERTIES FROM ANY AND ALL DAMAGE THAT MAY OCCUR FROM STORM WATER RUNOFF AND/OR                    10. ALL STORM DRAIN AND SEWER CONDUITS, MANHOLES, AND BOXES SHALL BE CLEAN AND FREE OF
      DEPOSITION OF DEBRIS RESULTING FROM ANY AND ALL WORK IN CONNECTION WITH CONSTRUCTION,                   ROCKS, DIRT, AND CONSTRUCTION DEBRIS PRIOR TO FINAL INSPECTION.
      AND SUBMIT A STORM WATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN.                                                 11. CONTRACTOR IS RESPONSIBLE FOR THE COST AND SCHEDULING OF REQUIRED UTILITIES TO THE
11.   WORK IN PUBLIC STREETS, ONCE BEGUN, SHALL BE PROSECUTED TO COMPLETION WITHOUT DELAY AS                  PROJECT.
      TO PROVIDE MINIMUM INCONVENIENCE TO ADJACENT PROPERTY OWNERS AND THE TRAVELING                      12. ALL WATER LINES SHALL BE INSTALLED PER SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY STANDARDS. STANDARD PLAN
      PUBLIC.                                                                                                 NO. 521 SP FOR WATER SERVICE CONNECTION
12.   CONTRACTOR SHALL PROVIDE ALL NECESSARY HORIZONTAL AND VERTICAL TRANSITIONS BETWEEN
      NEW CONSTRUCTION AND EXISTING SURFACES TO PROVIDE FOR PROPER DRAINAGE AND FOR INGRESS
                                                                                                          AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         T:\_2023\23-8011 - Operator Restroom Millcreek & West Jordan\design 23-8011\dwg - Millcreek Station\sheets\C1.1 - GENERAL NOTES - MSTA.dwg
      AND EGRESS TO NEW CONSTRUCTION.
13.   NATURAL VEGETATION AND SOIL COVER SHALL NOT BE DISTURBED PRIOR TO ACTUAL CONSTRUCTION
      OF A REQUIRED FACILITY OR IMPROVEMENT. MASS CLEARING OF THE SITE IN ANTICIPATION OF                 1.   PEDESTRIAN/ADA ROUTES SHALL MEET THE FOLLOWING SPECIFICATIONS:
      CONSTRUCTION SHALL BE AVOIDED. CONSTRUCTION TRAFFIC SHALL BE LIMITED TO ONE APPROACH                     - ROUTES SHALL HAVE A 2.00% (1:50) MAXIMUM CROSS SLOPE.
      TO THE SITE. THE APPROACH SHALL BE DESIGNATED BY THE OWNER OR GOVERNING AGENCY.                          - ROUTES SHALL HAVE A 5.00% (1:20) MAXIMUM SLOPE.
14.   THE CONTRACTOR SHALL TAKE REASONABLE MEASURE TO PROTECT EXISTING IMPROVEMENTS FROM                       - RAMPS SHALL HAVE A 8.33% (1:12) MAXIMUM SLOPE
      DAMAGE AND ALL SUCH IMPROVEMENTS DAMAGED BY THE CONTRACTOR'S OPERATION SHALL BE                     2.   ADA PARKING STALLS AND ADJACENT ROUTES SHALL HAVE A 2.00% MAXIMUM SURFACE SLOPE IN
      REPAIRED OR RECONSTRUCTED TO THE ENGINEER/OWNER'S SATISFACTION AT THE EXPENSE OF THE                     ANY DIRECTION.
      CONTRACTOR.                                                                                         3.   THE CONTRACTOR SHALL ADHERE TO THE ABOVE SPECIFICATIONS. IN THE EVENT OF A DISCREPANCY
15.   THE CONTRACTOR SHALL REVIEW AND COMPLY WITH THE UTA SAFETY MANUAL.                                       IN THE CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS, THE CONTRACTOR SHALL NOTIFY THE ENGINEER PRIOR TO ANY
                                                                                                               CONSTRUCTION.




       ----     ----




                                                                                            100%                                  FOCUS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     WE                                                                N/A


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      OPERATOR RELIEF ROOMS
       ----     ----
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           C1.1 - GENERAL NOTES - MSTA
       ----     ----
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GL
                                                                                                                                                            ã
       ----     ----                                                                                                           ENGINEERING AND SURVEYING, LLC                                                                                                                        MILLCREEK STATION               2/27/2024

                                                                                              PRELIMINARY                            6949 S. HIGH TECH DRIVE SUITE 200


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GENERAL NOTES
       ----     ----                                                                                                               MIDVALE, UTAH 84047 PH: (801) 352-0075                                                                            JW                                                              23-8011
                                                                                              NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION                             www.focusutah.com                       UTAH TRANSIT AUTHORITY
       ----     ----
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    C1.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LEGEND
      Ex
       G
           AS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           BOUNDARY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ROW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Ex COMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CENTERLINE
      SD


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LOT LINE
       15
           Ex

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EASEMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2" ELECTRICAL CONDUIT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          15 SD            15" STORM DRAIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          6 SS             6" SANITARY SEWER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          8W               8" CULINARY WATER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          8 SW             8" SECONDARY WATER
                                 Ex
                                    G
                                   AS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          XXXX             CONTOUR MAJOR
                  Ex




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          XXXX             CONTOUR MINOR
                     1
                    0S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Ex SD   EXIST. STORM DRAIN
                      S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Ex SS   EXIST. SANITARY SEWER
                                   SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EXIST. CULINARY WATER
                                        15



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Ex W
  P




                                         Ex
UG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            X               X         X    EXIST. FENCE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Ex COMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (XXXX)           EXIST. CONTOUR MAJOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (XXXX)           EXIST. CONTOUR MINOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           WM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           WATER METER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SIGN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           STREET LIGHT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EXISTING UTA SIGN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SD                         EXIST. SD MH, INLET, AND COMBO
                                             Ex




                          E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TO RELOCATE
                                             10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SS             EXIST. SEWER MANHOLE
                                              SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             REMOVE EXISTING CURB & GUTTER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SAWCUT AT EXIST CONCRETE JOINT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EXIST. CULINARY VALVE, TEE & BEND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SAWCUT EXISTING PAVEMENT FOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EXIST. SECONDARY VALVE, TEE & BEND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EXISTING TRAFFIC SIGN                                                                                                                              GRADING AND UTILITY WORK
                                                         Ex 15 SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TO REMAIN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EXIST. WATER BLOW-OFF
                                                                      Ex




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              REMOVE OR TRIM EXISTING
                                                                      GA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4244.57                                   4244.55                                            4244.51                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EXIST. FIRE HYDRANT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Ex COMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4244.51            LANDSCAPING4244.56
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           AS NEEDED
                                                                        S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TBC                                       TBC                                                TBC                                                                                                                              4244.79
                                                                    Ex 10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        59.9'              TBC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TBC                                                                                                                                                                                                             STREET MONUMENT (TO BE SET)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3.2'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TBC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Ex COMM
                                                                      W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EXIST. STREET MONUMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ////    ////   ////    ////    ////      ////              ////         ////   ////   ////   ////        ////      ////   ////   ////   ////   ////     ////       ////     ////      ////    ////   ////




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ////


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4244.57
                                                                                      SAWCUT EXISTING PAVEMENT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TBC                                                                                                                                                            REMOVE EXISTING                                                                                                                                                                        sd                         EXIST. SD INLET & MH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ////
                                                                                               FOR UTILITY WORK                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CURB & GUTTER                               10.1'           4244.78                                                                                                                                S              EXIST. SEWER MH
                                                                      Ex




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SAWCUT AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     10.2'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TBC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ////
                                                                         1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EXIST. VALVE, TEE, & BEND
                                                                        0S




                                                                                                                                                                                        30.0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    REMOVE EXISTING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ////
                                                                          S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ////

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ASPHALT PAVEMENT                                                                                                                          EXIST. FIRE HYDRANT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                              ////
                                                                                                                                                                                              ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ////   ////

                                                                                                                                          ////
                                                                                                                                                           ////
                                                                                                                                                                             ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     o XXXX.XX             SPOT ELEVATION
                                                                                                                       ////
                                                                                                    ////




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ////

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PROP COMMUNICATION JUNCTION BOX
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     WM
                                                         Ex 15 SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ////
                                                                                    ////




                                                                            6.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                     ////


                                                                                                                                                 ////
                                                                                                                                                                   ////
                                                                                                                                                                                     ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EXISTING PAVEMENT AREA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ////




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Ex COMM
                                                                                                                              ////
                                                                                      ////




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    UTA TRAX
                                                                                                                         S
                                                                                                            ////
                                                                                     Ex 10



                                                                                                                   S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ////




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Ex COMM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ////

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     20.3'
                                                                                                                                                                                              33.0'
                                                                                           W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ////


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ////




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ////
                                                   UGP




                                                                                                                                                                                                              ////
                                                                                                                                                                                              ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ////




                                                                                                                                                                              ////




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ////
                                                                                                                                                            ////                                                                                                                                                             ////
                                                                                                                                           ////                                                                                                                                                                ////
                                                                                                                        ////                                                                                                                                                                    ////
                                                                                                         ////                                                                                                                                                          ////




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ////




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         C C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                       ////

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4.9'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4.7'                         5.6'                                                                                                             X       X   X

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           E
                                                                                           ////




                                                                                                                                                                                       ////




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           C
                                                                             6.0'                                                                   ////
                                                                                                                                                                      ////

                                                                                                                                   ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EXISTING CURB AND GUTTER
                                                                                                  ////




                                                                                                                ////
                                                                                                    Ex GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TO REMAIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           11.4'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   E           E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       REMOVE OR TRIM EXISTING                                                                                                                                                                                                                      16.6'
                                                          Ex 15 SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LANDSCAPING AS NEEDED
                                                                                                                               Ex 10




                                                                             SAWCUT EXISTING PAVEMENT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Ex COMM
                                                                                      FOR UTILITY WORK                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SAWCUT AND REMOVE
                                                                                                                                     W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EXISTING COMMUNICATION BOXES                                                                                                                                                                                                            EXISTING CURB & GUTTER

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           E
                                                   UGP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       E               E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (PROTECT-IN-PLACE)                                                                                                                                                                                 EXISTING CATCH BASIN TO BE ABANDONED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            AND FILLED WITH CONCRETE.
                                                                                                                        Ex 10 SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EXISTING CURB & GUTTER                                                                                                                                                                EXISTING GRATE TO BE REPLACED WITH SOLID LID                                                  P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       UG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TO REMAIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         REMOVE EXISTING TREE                                                                                                                      X       X       X

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EXISTING LIGHTING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EXISTING SIDEWALK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Ex COMM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (PROTECT-IN-PLACE)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TO REMAIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EXISTING CATCH BASIN                                                                        FILL THE PIPE WITH CONCRETE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               UTA BUS ACCESS            UG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           P
                                                                                                   Ex GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TO REMAIN                                                                        3' TO NORTHEAST IN PLACE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EXISTING STORM DRAIN                                                                                                                                                                                                                          e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TO REMAIN (PROTECT-IN-PLACE)
                                                                                                                                                                      Ex 10
                                                          Ex 15 SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Ex COMM
                                                                                                                   S
                                                                                                                                                                             W
                                                   UGP




                                                                                                            S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Ex 8 SS                                                                                  Ex 8 SS                                                                            Ex 8 SS                                                                    Ex 8 SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             UG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 230 WEST (WASHINGTON STREET)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Ex COMM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     UG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  T:\_2023\23-8011 - Operator Restroom Millcreek & West Jordan\design 23-8011\dwg - Millcreek Station\sheets\C2 - REMOVAL PLAN - MSTA.dwg
                                                                                                  Ex GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             e
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Ex 10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         UG
                                                   UGP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Ex COMM
                                                           Ex 15 SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                              W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Ex COMM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  e
                                                                                                                       Ex 10 SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   UG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Ex COMM
                                                                                              Ex GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OH
                                                   UGP




                                                                                                                                             Ex 15 SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Ex COMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                OH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Ex COMM
                                                                                                                        Ex 10 SS




                                                                                                                     P
                                                                                                                   OH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GRAPHIC SCALE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Ex COMM




                                                  C
                                                           Ex 12 SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               10   0   5            10               20                          40
                                                                                             Ex GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Ex 10 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ( IN FEET )




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Ex COMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1 inch = 10 ft.

           ----           ----




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  100%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1:10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       FOCUS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               WE


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      OPERATOR RELIEF ROOMS
           ----           ----
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       C2 - REMOVAL PLAN - MSTA
           ----           ----
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ã
           ----           ----                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ENGINEERING AND SURVEYING, LLC                                                                                                                                                                                 MILLCREEK STATION                                                               2/27/2024

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PRELIMINARY                                                                                                                        6949 S. HIGH TECH DRIVE SUITE 200


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               REMOVAL PLAN
           ----           ----                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MIDVALE, UTAH 84047 PH: (801) 352-0075                                                                                                                                                  JW                                                                                               23-8011
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION                                                                                                                         www.focusutah.com                                                                                               UTAH TRANSIT AUTHORITY
           ----           ----
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                C2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LEGEND
      Ex
       G
           AS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 BOUNDARY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ROW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Ex COMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CENTERLINE
      SD


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LOT LINE
       15
           Ex

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EASEMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2" ELECTRICAL CONDUIT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           15 SD                 15" STORM DRAIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           6 SS                  6" SANITARY SEWER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           8W                    8" CULINARY WATER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           8 SW                  8" SECONDARY WATER
                                 Ex
                                    G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EXISTING STORM DRAIN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     XXXX                   CONTOUR MAJOR
                                   AS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TO REMAIN (PROTECT-IN-PLACE)
                  Ex




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          XXXX                   CONTOUR MINOR
                     1
                    0S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Ex SD        EXIST. STORM DRAIN
                      S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Ex SS        EXIST. SANITARY SEWER
                                   SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EXIST. CULINARY WATER
                                        15



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Ex W
  P




                                         Ex
UG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             X               X         X         EXIST. FENCE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Ex COMM
                                                                                     PROPERTY LINE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (XXXX)                 EXIST. CONTOUR MAJOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (XXXX)                 EXIST. CONTOUR MINOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           WM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 WATER METER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SIGN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 STREET LIGHT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SD                             EXIST. SD MH, INLET, AND COMBO
                                             Ex




                          E
                                             10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SS                   EXIST. SEWER MANHOLE
                                              SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EXIST. CULINARY VALVE, TEE & BEND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PROPOSED CATCH BASIN.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PROPERTY LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PROPOSED ELECTRICAL                                                                                                       CONNECT TO EXISTING STORM DRAIN LINE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EXIST. SECONDARY VALVE, TEE & BEND
                                                         Ex 15 SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SEE C4 FOR DETAILS                                                                                                                                                                                          PROPOSED 2.5' CURB & GUTTER                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EXIST. WATER BLOW-OFF
                                                                      Ex
                                                                      GA




                                                                                                                                              PROPOSED CURB & GUTTER TO TIE                                                                                                                                                          4244.57                                     4244.55                                             4244.51                                                                                                                          PER SOUTH SALT LAKE STD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    EXIST. FIRE HYDRANT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Ex COMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              4244.51
                                                                        S




                                                                                                                                                 INTO EXISTING CURB & GUTTER                                                                                                                                                         TBC                                         TBC                                                 TBC                                                                                      4244.56                                                   4244.79
                                                                    Ex 10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TBC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                STREET MONUMENT (TO BE SET)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TBC                                                       TBC                                                                      PROPERTY LINE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Ex COMM
                                                                                                          SAWCUT EXISTING PAVEMENT
                                                                      W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EXIST. STREET MONUMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ////   ////    ////     ////     ////      ////              ////         ////   ////    ////   ////        ////      ////       ////     ////    ////   ////      ////       ////   ////      ////     ////        ////




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ////


                                                                                                                   FOR UTILITY WORK                                                                                                                                                                                                                4244.57
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TBC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            sd                             EXIST. SD INLET & MH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4244.57                                                                                                           4244.78
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PROPOSED FIBER LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S                   EXIST. SEWER MH
                                                                      Ex




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TBC                                                                                                               TBC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ////
                                                                         1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SEE C4 FOR DETAILS                                                                                                                                                      EXIST. VALVE, TEE, & BEND
                                                                        0S




                                                                                                              PROPOSED SEWER                                                                                                                                               ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PROPOSED LANDSCAPE AREA.
                                                                          S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             4244.72                FILL AREA WITH ROCK MULCH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4244.64                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EXIST. FIRE HYDRANT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ////
                                                                                                             SEE C4 FOR DETAILS                                                                                         ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TBC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      UTA TRAX
                                                                                                                                                                                                        ////
                                                                                                                                                                                        ////                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TBC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4244.95
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ////   ////
                                                                                                                                                     ////
                                                                                                                                                                       ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4244.59                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               o XXXX.XX                 SPOT ELEVATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SW
                                                                                                                                    ////

                                                                                              ////
                                                                                                                 ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TBC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4244.76                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PROP COMMUNICATION JUNCTION BOX




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.00%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ////




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3.31%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2.00%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4244.72                                                                                             4.0'                                                                   TBC               STRIPE OUT THE EXISTING PARKING SPACE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               WM
                                                         Ex 15 SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                               ////
                                                                              ////




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SW
                                                                                                                                                                                               ////
                                                                                                                                                                               ////
                                                                                                                                                             ////
                                                                                                                                           ////                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4244.64
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2.00%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ////




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Ex COMM
                                                                                                                        ////
                                                                                ////




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SW
                                                                                                                   S
                                                                                                      ////
                                                                               Ex 10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4244.72
                                                                                                             S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Ex COMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PROPOSED BUILDING                                                                                                      3.5'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ////
                                                                                     W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ////

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (TYP)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ////




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          F.F.=4244.72                                                                         4.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ////
                                   PROPOSED SEWER TIE INTO
                                                   UGP




                                                                                                                                                                                                        ////
                                                                                                                                                                                        ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4 DOORS WITH 2 RESTROOMS &                                                                                                                                                                      PROPERTY LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ////




                                           EXISTING SEWER                                                                                                               ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4244.72




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1 BREAK ROOM
                                                                                                                                                      ////                                                                                                                                                             ////

                                                                                                                  ////
                                                                                                                                     ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SW      4244.88
                                                                                                   ////                                                                                                                                                          ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TBC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      4244.94

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     C C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.50%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ////




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2.00%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SW                                                                                     4244.69                                                                                                              3.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                 ////                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SW                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   X       X   X

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  E
                                                                                     ////




                                                                                                                                                                                 ////




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       C
                                                                                                                                                                ////

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.7'                                                 1.9'
                                                                                                                                              ////
                                                                                                                             ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4244.72
                                                                                            ////




                                                                                                          ////
                                                                                              Ex GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4244.66                                   4244.59
                                                                                                                                                                        PROPOSED WATER                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PROPOSED BUILDING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SW                                    TBC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          E           E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  X
                                                                                                                                                                       SEE C4 FOR DETAILS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4244.70
                                                          Ex 15 SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SW
                                                                                                                         Ex 10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PROPOSED 2.5' CURB & GUTTER TO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Ex COMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4244.85
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TBC                  TIE INTO EXIST CURB & GUTTER                                                                                                                                                                                                                               NEW ROCK LANDSCAPE
                                    SAWCUT EXISTING PAVEMENT
                                                                                                                               W




                                             FOR UTILITY WORK                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PROPOSED EDGE OF CONCRETE PAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  E
                                                   UGP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              E               E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EXISTING COMMUNICATION BOX                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TO MATCH EXIST SIDEWALK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4.0'                                                           4.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (PROTECT-IN-PLACE)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NEW CURB & GUTTER
                                                                                                                  Ex 10 SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EXISTING CATCH BASIN TO BE ABANDONED                                                                                                  UG                                                                                                     2.00%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        AND FILLED WITH CONCRETE.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3:1 MAX
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EXISTING CURB & GUTTER                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                MA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          X       X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3:1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EXISTING GRATE TO BE REPLACED WITH SOLID LID
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TO REMAIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Ex COMM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GRADE BREAK IN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PROPOSED EDGE OF                                                                                                                                         CONCRETE PAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CONCRETE PAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               UTA BUS ACCESS                               UG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              P
                                                                                             Ex GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EXISTING SIDEWALK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TO REMAIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PROPERTY LINE                                                               EXISTING STORM DRAIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TO REMAIN (PROTECT-IN-PLACE)                                                                                      FILL THE PIPE WITH CONCRETE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              e
                                                                                                                                                                Ex 10
                                                          Ex 15 SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3' TO NORTHEAST IN PLACE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               30" COMPACTED 3/4" MINUS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Ex COMM
                                                                                                             S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6" CONCRETE SIDEWALK                                            MATERIAL BASE OF GRAVEL
                                                                                                                                                                       W
                                                   UGP




                                                                                                      S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Ex 8 SS                                                                                    Ex 8 SS                                                                                   Ex 8 SS                                                                               Ex 8 SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  P                                                                                                                                                         PER MANUFACTURER                                            PER MANUFACTURER SPECIFICATIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                UG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SUB BASE THICKNESS SHALL EXTEND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TO FROST DEPTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           230 WEST (WASHINGTON STREET)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    BUILDING TYPICAL SECTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Ex COMM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     UG
                                                                                            Ex GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  e




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        T:\_2023\23-8011 - Operator Restroom Millcreek & West Jordan\design 23-8011\dwg - Millcreek Station\sheets\C3 - SITE PLAN - MSTA.dwg
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Ex 10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              UG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 NOTES:
                                                   UGP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Ex COMM
                                                           Ex 15 SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                        W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1. CONTOURS ARE SHOWN IN 1 FT INCREMENTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Ex COMM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2.   CONTRACTOR TO ASSURE PRE-FABRICATED RESTROOM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               e
                                                                                                                 Ex 10 SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                UG                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     STRUCTURE IS CLIMATIZED PER MANUFACTURERS SPECIFICATIONS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Ex COMM
                                                                                        Ex GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                OH
                                                   UGP




                                                                                                                                       Ex 15 SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Ex COMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          OH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Ex COMM
                                                                                                                  Ex 10 SS




                                                                                                               P
                                                                                                             OH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Ex COMM




                                                  C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GRAPHIC SCALE
                                                           Ex 12 SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            20                   0               10        20               40                             80
                                                                                       Ex GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Ex 10 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ( IN FEET )




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Ex COMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1 inch = 20 ft.

           ----           ----




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            100%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1:10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          FOCUS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          WE


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OPERATOR RELIEF ROOMS
           ----           ----
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                C3 - SITE PLAN - MSTA
           ----           ----
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          GL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ã
           ----           ----                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ENGINEERING AND SURVEYING, LLC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MILLCREEK STATION                                                                                            2/27/2024

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PRELIMINARY                                                                                                                                 6949 S. HIGH TECH DRIVE SUITE 200


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SITE PLAN
           ----           ----                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            MIDVALE, UTAH 84047 PH: (801) 352-0075                                                                                                                                                                                                          JW                                                                                                                                           23-8011
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION                                                                                                                                  www.focusutah.com                                                                                                               UTAH TRANSIT AUTHORITY
           ----           ----
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       C3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LEGEND
      Ex
         G
           AS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           BOUNDARY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ROW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Ex COMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CENTERLINE
      SD


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LOT LINE
       15
           Ex

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EASEMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2" ELECTRICAL CONDUIT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     15 SD                 15" STORM DRAIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     6 SS                  6" SANITARY SEWER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     8W                    8" CULINARY WATER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     8 SW                  8" SECONDARY WATER
                                 Ex
                                    G
                                   AS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    XXXX                   CONTOUR MAJOR
                  Ex




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    XXXX                   CONTOUR MINOR
                     1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EXISTING STORM DRAIN
                    0S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Ex SD        EXIST. STORM DRAIN
                      S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TO REMAIN (PROTECT-IN-PLACE)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Ex SS        EXIST. SANITARY SEWER
                                   SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EXIST. CULINARY WATER
                                        15



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Ex W
  P




                                         Ex
UG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       X               X         X         EXIST. FENCE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Ex COMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (XXXX)                 EXIST. CONTOUR MAJOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (XXXX)                 EXIST. CONTOUR MINOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4" SDR-35 SEWER                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  WM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           L = 37.03'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      WATER METER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ELECTRICAL BUILDING TIE-IN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SS CLEANOUT#104                                                                                                                                                                                        S = 2.00%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SIGN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          RIM = 4244.59                                                                                                                                       PROPOSED CATCH BASIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 INV. OUT = 4240.80 (E)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1" TYPE K OR L                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          STREET LIGHT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CONNECT TO EXIST                                                                                               ANNEALED "SOFT" COPPER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  INV. IN = 4240.80 (W)                                                                                                                                              STORM DRAIN LINE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SD                             EXIST. SD MH, INLET, AND COMBO
                                             Ex




                          E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   WATER SERVICE BUILDING TIE-IN
                                             10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SEE SSLC STD DWG 315.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SS                   EXIST. SEWER MANHOLE
                                              SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SS CLEANOUT#103                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EXIST. CULINARY VALVE, TEE & BEND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      RIM=4244.45                                                  4" SDR-35 SEWER
                                                                                                                                                                                                   BORE SEWER UNDER                                                                                                                                    PROPOSED 1" TYPE K OR L                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EXIST. SECONDARY VALVE, TEE & BEND
                                                                                                                                                                                                   EXISTING CONCRETE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  INV.OUT = 4241.54(W)                                         L = 2.74'
                                                                 Ex 15 SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ANNEALED "SOFT" COPPER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      INV.IN=4241.54 (SE)                                          S = 2.00%                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EXIST. WATER BLOW-OFF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               WATER SERVICE
                                                                              Ex
                                                                              GA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            MIN. BURY DEPTH 4'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EXIST. FIRE HYDRANT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Ex COMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SS CLEANOUT#102
                                                                                S




                                                   SAWCUT EXISTING PAVEMENT                                                                                    4" SDR-35 SEWER                                                                                                                                                                                        L = 23.35'
                                                                            Ex 1




                                                            FOR UTILITY WORK                                                                                          L = 34.67'                                                                                                                                                                                 PER APWA 551                                                                                                                                                                                       RIM=4244.38                                                                                                                                                                                                                            STREET MONUMENT (TO BE SET)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Ex COMM
                                                                                 0




                                                                                                                                                                      S = 2.00%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     INV.OUT = 4241.60(S)
                                                                              W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EXIST. STREET MONUMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ////    ////   ////   ////   ////     ////              ////          ////   ////   ////   ////         ////   ////   ////     ////   ////   ////   ////     ////   ////   ////   ////    ////




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ////

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    INV.IN=4241.60 (NW)
                          SEWER CONNECTION TIE-IN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           sd                             EXIST. SD INLET & MH
                                    INV = 4240.08




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ////
                                   PER APWA 431                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PROPOSED FIBER LINE                                                                                                                                       S                   EXIST. SEWER MH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4" SDR-35 SEWER
                                                                              Ex




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             L = 110.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ////
                                                                                 1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               L = 6.13'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EXIST. VALVE, TEE, & BEND
                                                                                 0S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ////
                                                                                   S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               S = 2.00%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EXIST. FIRE HYDRANT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                 ////
                                                             4121                                                                                             ////
                                                                                                                                                                                ////                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ////   ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 o XXXX.XX                 SPOT ELEVATION
                                                  EXIST. SSMH#101                                      ////
                                                                                                                          ////
                                                                                                                                             ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           BUILDING SEWER CONNECTION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ////
                                             INV OUT = 4239.35 (S)                                                                                                                                                                                                    ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SS CLEANOUT#101                                                                                                                                                                                                 PROP COMMUNICATION JUNCTION BOX
                                                 RIM ELEV 4244.65                                                                                                                                                                       ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           RIM=4243.18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     WM
                                                                 Ex 15 SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ////
                                                                                       ////




                                                                                                                                                                      ////
                                                                                                                                                                                        ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                        ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           INV.IN = 4241.72 (N)
                                                                                                                                                    ////




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ////




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Ex COMM
                                                                                                                                 ////
                                                                                         ////




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            UTA TRAX
                                                                                                                            S
                                                                                        Ex 10




                                                                                                               ////
                                                                                                                      S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ////
                                        SAWCUT EXISTING PAVEMENT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Ex COMM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ////
                                                                                              W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ////

                                                 FOR UTILITY WORK                                                                                                                                                                                              ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ////




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ////




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ////
                                                   UGP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           FIBER BUILDING TIE-IN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ////




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                W
                                                                                                                                                                                                 ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ////




                                                                                                                                                                                 ////




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ////
                                                                                                                                                               ////                                                                                                                                                           ////
                                                                                                                                              ////                                                                                                                                                              ////
                                                                                                                           ////                                                                                                                                                                  ////
                                                                                                            ////                                                                                                                                                        ////




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ////




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      C C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                          ////




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 X             X         X

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               E
                                                                                              ////




                                                                                                                                                                                          ////




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        C
                                                                                                                                                                         ////
                                                                                                                                                       ////
                                                                                                                                      ////
                                                                                                     ////




                                                                                                                                                                                                            1" TYPE K OR L
                                                                                                                   ////
                                                                                                       Ex GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                  ANNEALED "SOFT" COPPER                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NOTES:
                                                                                                                                                                                                          WATER SERVICE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 E                    E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1. ALL UTILITIES ARE PROTECT-IN -PLACE UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED.
                                                                  Ex 15 SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                       MIN. BURY DEPTH 4'
                                                                                                                                  Ex 10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                  L=42.57'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Ex COMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                            PER APWA 551
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2. PROPOSED UTILITY LOCATIONS ARE SCHEMATIC AND SUBJECT TO
                                                                                                                                        W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       BORE WATER UNDER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               E
                                                   UGP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            RELOCATION PER ENGINEER APPROVAL.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     E                        E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EXISTING CONCRETE
                                                                                                                           Ex 10 SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EXISTING CATCH BASIN TO BE                                                                                         UG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EXISTING COMMUNICATION BOX                                                                                                                                                                       ABANDONED AND FILLED.                                                                                                                                                                                            3. DURING CONSTRUCTION OF THE UTILITIES CONTRACTOR MUST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (PROTECT-IN-PLACE)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            MAINTAIN THE FUNCTIONALITY OF VEHICLE AND PEDESTRIAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               X          X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GRATE TO BE REPLACED WITH SOLID LID
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Ex COMM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             FILL THE PIPE WITH CONCRETE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TRAFFIC DURING THE HOURS OF BUS AND TRAIN OPERATIONS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PROPOSED ELECTRICAL CONDUIT                                                                                                      3' TO NORTHEAST IN PLACE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        MIN BURY DEPTH 3'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  UTA BUS ACCESS                       UG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         P                                                                                                 SEE DETAIL "A"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4. CONTRACTOR NEED TO CONTACT DEAN : 801-262-2906 EX105
                                                                                                      Ex GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EXISTING STORM DRAIN

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EXISTING CATCH BASIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TO REMAIN (PROTECT-IN-PLACE)                                                                                                                e                                                                                                                                   WITH MOUNT OLYMPUS IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT 3 WEEKS PRIOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TO BEGIN CONSTRUCTION.
                                                                                                                                                                         Ex 10
                                                                  Ex 15 SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Ex COMM
                                                                                                                      S
                                                                                                                                                                                W
                                                   UGP




                                                                                                               S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Ex 8 SS                                                                              Ex 8 SS                                                                             Ex 8 SS                                                        Ex 8 SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               UG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  230 WEST (WASHINGTON STREET)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Ex COMM
                                                             4118
                                                EXIST. SSMH#102                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Ex COMM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           UG
                                              INV. IN = -10.07 (N)
                                                RIM ELEV 4244.19




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   T:\_2023\23-8011 - Operator Restroom Millcreek & West Jordan\design 23-8011\dwg - Millcreek Station\sheets\C4 - UTILITY PLAN - MSTA.dwg
                                                                                                     Ex GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 e
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Ex 10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     UG
                                                   UGP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Ex COMM
                                                                   Ex 15 SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   INSTALL PROPOSED FIBER LINE TO TIE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   INTO THE EXISTING FIBER LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Ex COMM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              e
                                                                                                                          Ex 10 SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 UG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Ex COMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Ex COMM
                                                                                                 Ex GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      OH
                                                   UGP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PROPOSED FIBER LINE TO SPLICE INTO
                                                                                                                                                Ex 15 SD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EXISTING FIBER NETWORK.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Ex COMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CONTRACTOR TO FIELD VERIFY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EXISTING FIBER LOCATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Ex COMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             E                                                                   GRAPHIC SCALE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         UGP                                                            20                 10        20               40                           80
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     DETAIL "A"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ( IN FEET )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1 inch = 20 ft.

           ----           ----




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  100%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1:20




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     FOCUS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              WE


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                OPERATOR RELIEF ROOMS
           ----           ----
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        C3 - UTILITY PLAN - MSTA
           ----           ----
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ã
           ----           ----                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ENGINEERING AND SURVEYING, LLC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MILLCREEK STATION                                                                        2/27/2024

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PRELIMINARY                                                                                                                      6949 S. HIGH TECH DRIVE SUITE 200


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       UTILITY PLAN
           ----           ----                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MIDVALE, UTAH 84047 PH: (801) 352-0075                                                                                                                                                                                                    JW                                                                                                                23-8011
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION                                                                                                                       www.focusutah.com                                                                                    UTAH TRANSIT AUTHORITY
           ----           ----
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 C4
                                        PLANNING COMMISSION STAFF REPORT

MEETING DATE:            November 21, 2024
PROJECT NUMBER:          D24-00003
REQUEST(S):              Historic and Landmark Design Review
ADDRESS:                 3280 South 540 East
ZONE:                    Historic & Landmark
PROPERTY OWNER:          South Salt Lake City
APPLICANT:               South Salt Lake City

SYNOPSIS:
The South Salt Lake
Neighborhoods Department
petitions the Planning
Commission for design
review approval of a new
shake shingle roof at the
Redwood building on the
Historic Scott School
campus.

Pursuant to § 17.11.030(A)
the Planning Commission
acts as the Historic
Landmark Commission and
reviews applications in
accordance with the Historic
and Landmark District
regulations. This
Commission reviews all
additions, renovation,
alterations, exterior
remodeling, or major changes
in color, material, texture, or
roofing materials, to the
exterior of any improvement which do not constitute demolition.

 The accessory structure (outlined in the image to the right in yellow), also known as the Redwood Building, sits
 directly north of the Historic Scott School. The Structure contains two types of roofs, a flat roof and a cedar shake,
 gable-form roof. As indicated by the Applicant’s letter, the cedar shake roof has exceeded its life and is causing
 damage to the Structure. Replacing the cedar shake roof will retain the gable roof form. The flat roof is outside the
 scope of this application and will not be improved.

STAFF RECOMMENDATION:
Staff recommends the Planning Commission, in its role as the Historic Landmark Commission, approve, the Historic
Landmark Design Review application for the Historic Scott School campus located at 3280 South 540 East, subject
to Conditions of Approval.

                                                             1
                                  PLANNING COMMISSION STAFF REPORT
GENERAL INFORMATION:


Location:                           3280 South 540 East

Surrounding Land Use Districts:     North – R1 Single Family
                                    South – Master Planned Mixed Use
                                    East – R1 Single Family
                                    West – Commercial Corridor

Figure 1: Site Plan




                                                   2
Figure 2: Looking West




PLANNING COMMISSION AUTHORITY:

17.11.030. Land use authority designations.

    A. Planning Commission. The planning commission is the land use authority on issues of: subdivision and
       subdivision plat approval, vacating, altering or amending a Subdivision Plat; Conditional Use Permit
       Applications; design review for Building Heights as established in this Title; design review for projects on
       Parcels where any portion of the Parcel abuts any residential district; and the issuance of a Building or
       demolition permit in a Historic and Landmark district.

17.03.150. Historic and Landmark

        E. Procedures for Land Use Designations and Design Review Certificates.

                1. Official nominations of properties to be designated within the district must originate with the
                property owner, City administration, the Historic Landmark Commission, or the City Council.
                Applications shall be filed with the Community Development Department.

                2. The Historic and Landmark Commission shall review all Applications submitted to the
                Community Development Director. Approval shall be consistent with established guidelines. The
                Historic and Landmark Commission may call upon historic preservation consultants, through the
                Community Development Director, for professional expertise.

        F. Design Review Certificate Standards.

                1. A design review certificate shall be required in any of the following instances involving a
                Structure within the district.

                         a. All additions, renovation, alterations, exterior remodeling or major changes in color,
                         material, texture, roofing materials, to the exterior of any improvement which do not
                         constitute demolition;

                         b. Alterations or Development affecting natural features, or site improvements; and

                                                          3
                          c. Any signs placed on any Structure or property.

                  2. Routine maintenance and upkeep, repainting or replacing roofing, shutters, trim, or similar
                  decorative items with similar materials shall not require a design review certificate.

GENERAL PLAN CONSIDERATIONS:
     1. Community Values Goal #4: Enhance community pride and identity.

                  Analysis: One of the action plans under this goal is to “invest in the Historic Scott School as the
                  community’s art hub.” The new roof will allow the Redwood building to continue to house
                  community art classes.

     2. Land Use & Neighborhoods Goal #4: Preserve and enhance the unique identity of South Salt Lake.

                  Analysis: This repair to the Redwood building will help preserve its historic nature while increasing
                  safety.

     3. Parks, Recreation, & Open Space Goal #3: Continue to provide equitable access to city programs and
        amenities for all residents.

                  Analysis: This building and campus will be used by the community for art classes and by Promise
                  for other activities. Replacing the roof will increase the safety of the building for all who use it and
                  preserve the historic structure for the enjoyment of the community.


ANALYSIS:

      I.    ZONING REVIEW
 The proposal to replace the roof of the Redwood building is consistent with the purposes of the Historic and
 Landmark district. The purpose of the district is, in part, to:
       •    Preserve Historic and Landmark Structures, Sites, and areas for the Use, observation, study, education,
            enjoyment, and general welfare of the present and future inhabitants of South Salt Lake; and,
       •    Protect the character of Historic and Landmark Structures.


     II.    HISTORIC AND LANDMARK REVIEW
 In approving an Application for a design review certificate, the Historic and Landmark Commission shall find that a
 project substantially complies with the following standards found in § 17.03.150(F)(5)(a-j). Staff reviewed these
 standards and have outlined the findings in the following below:

  Standards and Guidelines                                        Staff Review
  A property will be used as it was historically or be given      COMPLIES – As proposed, the Application will not
  a new Use that requires minimal change to its                   alter the Use of the property and will enhance the
  distinctive materials, features, spaces, and spatial            historic materials and context of the Redwood
  relationships.                                                  building.




                                                             4
The historic character of a property will be retained and   COMPLIES – The historic character of the property
preserved. The removal of distinctive materials or          is retained. The Applicant shall not alter the historic
alteration of features, spaces, and spatial relationships   roof form.
that characterize a property will be avoided.


Each property will be recognized as a physical record of    Not applicable.
its time, place, and Use. Changes that create a false
sense of historical Development, such as adding
conjectural features or elements from other historic
properties, will not be undertaken.


Changes to a property that have acquired historic           COMPLIES – Replacing the roof preserves the
significance in their own right will be retained and        historic significance of the site.
preserved.


Distinctive materials, features, finishes, and              COMPLIES – The Applicant’s proposal will preserve
construction techniques or examples of craftsmanship        the historic character.
that characterize a property will be preserved.


Deteriorated historic features will be repaired rather      COMPLIES – When a Historic Structure’s roof has
than replaced. Where the severity of deterioration          exceeded its lifespan and threatens the Structure’s
requires the replacement of a distinctive feature, the      overall integrity, it is best practice to replace the
new feature will match the old in design, color, texture,   roof in kind.
and, where possible, materials. Replacement of missing
features will be substantiated by documentary and
physical evidence.


Chemical or physical treatments, if appropriate, will be    Not applicable.
undertaken using the gentlest means possible.
Treatments that cause damage to historic materials will
not be used.


Archeological resources will be protected and preserved     Not applicable.
in place. If such resources must be disturbed, mitigation
measures will be undertaken.


New additions, exterior alterations, or related new         COMPLIES – No additions or new construction are
construction will not destroy historic materials,           proposed.
features, and spatial relationships that characterize the
property. The new work shall be differentiated from the
old and will be Compatible with the historic materials,
features, size, Scale and proportion, and massing to
protect the integrity of the property and its
environment.



                                                       5
  New additions and adjacent or related new construction           Not applicable.
  will be undertaken in such a manner that, if removed in
  the future, the essential form and integrity of the
  historic property and its environment would be
  unimpaired.



     III.   FURTHER CONSIDERATIONS
 The City’s Chief Building Official and Fire Marshal reviewed the proposal to use cedar shake shingles and did not
 raise any concerns.


STAFF RECOMMENDATION:

 Staff recommends the Planning Commission, in its capacity as the Historic Landmark Commission, approve the
 Historic Landmark Design Review application to replace the Redwood building’s roof at the Historic Scott School
 campus located at 3280 South 540 East, based upon the information submitted by the applicant, the general plan
 considerations and ordinance analysis, and the following Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law and Conditions of
 Approval.

 Findings of Fact:

       1. The subject location, 3280 South 540 East, is in the Historic and Landmark land use district.

       2. The Neighborhoods Department, as the Applicant, proposes constructing a new roof and using cedar
            shake shingles on the Redwood Building located on the Historic School Campus.

       3. A gable roof is the historic roof form of the Redwood Building.

       4. The Historic and Landmark Land Use District requires the Historic and Landmark Commission to review all
            building permits for structures within the district.

       5. The property will be used as it was historically.

       6. The historic character of the property will be retained.

       7. The proposal does not change the site’s Use, distinctive materials, features, spaces, or spatial
            relationships.

       8. The property's historic character will be retained and preserved.

       9. The property will remain a physical record of its time, place, and Use.

       10. No new additions to the Historic Structure or Scott School Campus are proposed or approved.

 Conclusions of Law:

       1.    The proposal, as conditioned, complies with the requirements pursuant to § 17.03.150 of the South Salt
             Lake City Municipal Code.

                                                              6
     2.   The proposal, as conditioned, is consistent with the South Salt Lake City General Plan.

     3.   The proposal, as conditioned, does not compromise the health, safety, or welfare of: Persons employed
          within or using the proposed development; Those residing or working in the vicinity of the proposed use
          or development; or Property or improvements in the vicinity of the proposed use or development.

     4.   The proposal, as conditioned, does not impose disproportionate burdens on the citizens of South Salt
          Lake.

Conditions of Approval:

     1. The Neighborhoods Director will work with the South Salt Lake Building Department to obtain and
        complete all appropriate permits and inspections.

     2. The roof form shall be replaced in kind to match the roof’s historic form.

PLANNING COMMISSION/HISTORIC AND LANDMARK COMMISSION OPTIONS:


Option 1: Approval
Move to approve the application submitted for a Historic and Landmark Design Review to replace the roof of the
Redwood building on the Historic Scott School campus, located at 3280 South 540 East, based on the Findings of
Fact and Conclusions of Law as outlined in the staff report with the following conditions of approval:

     1. The Neighborhoods Director will work with the South Salt Lake Building Department to obtain and
        complete all appropriate permits and inspections.

     2. The roof form shall be replaced in kind to match the roof’s historic form.

Option 2: Denial
Move to deny the application submitted for a Historic and Landmark Design Review to replace the roof of the
Redwood building on the Historic Scott School campus, located at 3280 South 540 East, based on the reasoning set
forth in the record.

Option 3: Continuance
Move to table the decision on the application submitted for a Historic and Landmark Design Review to replace the
roof of the Redwood building on the Historic Scott School campus, located at 3280 South 540 East, to a date
certain to allow the Applicant and Staff time to respond to specific inquiries or concerns raised by the Planning
Commission, or to allow the Planning Commission more time to consider the proposal.




                                                         7
