                                     South Salt Lake City Council
                                     REGULAR MEETING AGENDA

  Public notice is hereby given that the South Salt Lake City Council will hold a Regular Meeting on
  Wednesday, August 13, 2025, in the City Council Chambers, 220 East Morris Avenue, Suite 200,
  commencing at 7:00 p.m., or as soon thereafter as possible.

  To watch the meeting live click the link below to join:
  https://zoom.us/j/93438486912

   Watch recorded City Council meetings at: youtube.com/@SouthSaltLakeCity

  Conducting                                                            Corey Thomas, District 2
  Council Chair                                                         Sharla Bynum
  Sergeant at Arms                                                      South Salt Lake PD

Opening Ceremonies
      1. Welcome/Introductions                                          Corey Thomas
      2. Pledge of Allegiance                                           Nick Mitchell

Approval of Minutes
      May 28th, Work Meeting
      May 28th, Regular Meeting
      June 11th, Work Meeting
      June 11th, Regular Meeting

No Action Comments
      1. Scheduling                                                              City Recorder
      2. Public Comments/Questions
              a. Response to Comments/Questions
                 (at the discretion of the conducting Council Member)
      3. Mayor Comments
      4. City Attorney Comments
      5. City Council Comments
      6. Information
           a. Police Department Morale Audit RFP Update                          Sharla Bynum

Action Items
Unfinished Business
      1. A Resolution of the South Salt Lake City Council                        Josh Collins
          Approving and Authorizing the Mayor to Execute
          an Interlocal Agreement with Salt Lake County
          Regarding Conveyance of Property from the County
          to the City of South Salt Lake
      2. A Resolution of the South Salt Lake City Council                        Spencer Cawley
          Approving and Authorizing the Mayor to Execute
          a Development Agreement on Behalf of the City
          of South Salt Lake with SSL Market Center QOZB,
          LLC Providing for the Development of Property


See page two for continuation of Agenda
South Salt Lake Regular Meeting Agenda                       August 13, 2025 Page 2
           Located at 2280 South State Street Known
           as the Market Center Project
      3. An Ordinance of the South Salt Lake City Council                       Spencer Cawley
           to Amend the South Salt Lake Zoning Map from
           Downtown District to Housing and Transit Overlay
           District for the Property Located at 2280 South State
           Street, South Salt Lake City, Utah

New Business
     1. A Resolution of the City of South Salt Lake                            Yasmin Abbyad
         Adopting the Salt Lake County Multi-Jurisdictional
         Multi-Hazard Mitigation Plan, as Required by the
         Federal Disaster Mitigation and Cost Reduction Act of 2000
     2. An Ordinance of the South Salt Lake City Council                       Josh Collins
         Amending Chapter 3.16 of the South Salt Lake City
         Municode Related to the Disposal of Surplus Personal Property
     3. An Ordinance of the South Salt Lake City Council                       Sharen Hauri
         Amending Section 3.11.010 of the South Salt Lake City
         Municipal Code to Modify Animal Services Fees
     4. An Ordinance of the South Salt Lake City Council                       Sharen Hauri
         Amending Section 3.11.010 of the South Salt Lake
         City Municipal Code to Modify Parks and Community Center Fees

Public Hearing – 7:30 (Or As Soon Thereafter as Possible)
To receive public comment regarding proposed amendments to all 2025/2026 fund budgets.

1.   Crystal Makin, for the City, to present information and answer questions
2.   Open Public Hearing
3.   Receive Public input
4.   Close Public Hearing
5.   Discussion by the City Council
6.   At Conclusion of Discussion by the Council, Motion and Second by Council
        a. To move action until a future specified meeting date;
        b. To take it to a work meeting for further discussion; or
        c. To take final action on the matter by adopting the budget amendment
          by Ordinance

Motion for Closed Meeting

Adjourn


Posted August 8, 2025


Those needing auxiliary communicative aids or other services for this meeting should contact
Ariel Andrus at 801-483-6019, giving at least 24 hours’ notice.

In accordance with State Statute and Council Policy, one or more Council Members may be connected
electronically.
South Salt Lake Regular Meeting Agenda                          August 13, 2025 page 3
                                   Public Comments/Question Policy
Time is made available for anyone in the audience to address the Council and/or Mayor concerning
matters pertaining to City business. When a member of the audience addresses the Council and/or
Mayor, they will come to the podium and state their name and City they reside in. The Public will be
asked to limit their remarks/questions to three (3) minutes each. The conducting Council Member shall
have discretion as to who will respond to a comment/question. In all cases the criteria for response will
be that comments/questions must be pertinent to City business, that there are no argumentative
questions and no personal attacks. Some comments/questions may have to wait for a response until
the next regular council meeting. The conducting Council Member will inform a citizen when they have
used the allotted time. Grievances by City employees must be processed in accordance with adopted
personnel rules.

Have a question or concern? Call the connect line 801-464-6757 or email connect@sslc.gov
                            RESOLUTION NO. R 2025____________

       A RESOLUTION OF THE SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL APPROVING
       AND AUTHORIZING THE MAYOR TO EXECUTE AN INTERLOCAL
       AGREEMENT WITH SALT LAKE COUNTY REGARDING CONVEYANCE
       OF PROPERTY FROM THE COUNTY TO THE CITY OF SOUTH SALT LAKE

        WHEREAS, pursuant to the Utah Interlocal Cooperation Act, Utah Code § 11-13-101 et
seq., public agencies, including political subdivisions of the State of Utah, are authorized to enter
into mutually advantageous agreements for joint and cooperative actions, including the sharing
of tax and other revenues;

       WHEREAS, Salt Lake County (“County”) is the owner of property located at
approximately 3492 and 3502 South 1000 West in South Salt Lake (the “Property”); and

        WHEREAS, the County has received authorization to transfer ownership of the Property
to the City of South Salt Lake (“City”) for the purposes of allowing the City to use the Property
for a law enforcement facility; and

        WHEREAS, the City and the County are public agencies as defined in the Interlocal Act
and desires to enter into an Interlocal Agreement to further the protection of the citizens of the
City and its neighboring communities and to appreciate the benefits of joint purchasing, mutual
aid, and efficient use of resources that are facilitated through participation of a separate interlocal
entity through the transfer of the Property;

       WHEREAS, pursuant to Utah Code § 10-3b-202, the Mayor is the City official
authorized to execute an agreement on behalf of the City;

       WHEREAS, the South Salt Lake City Council is required by Utah Code § 11-13-202.5 to
approve all Interlocal Agreements that provide for the City to acquire title to real property;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the City Council of the City of South Salt Lake as
follows:

       1.      It does hereby approve the Interlocal Agreement, in the form attached hereto as
               Exhibit A.

       2.      The effective date of the Agreement shall be the date as indicated in the
               Agreement.

       3.      This resolution takes effect immediately upon adoption.

            (signatures appear on next page; remainder of page intentionally left blank)
APPROVED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of South Salt Lake, Utah, on this
______ day of __________, 2025.


                                        BY THE CITY COUNCIL:

                                        ____________________________________
                                        Sharla Bynum, Council Chair

City Council Vote as Recorded:

       Bynum:        ______
       deWolfe:      ______
       Huff:         ______
       Mitchell:     ______
       Sanchez:      ______
       Thomas:       ______
       Williams:     ______




ATTEST:

____________________________________
Ariel Andrus, City Recorder
    Exhibit A
Form of Agreement
                          RESOLUTION NO. R 2025____________

A RESOLUTION OF THE SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL APPROVING AND
AUTHORIZING THE MAYOR TO EXECUTE A DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT ON
BEHALF OF THE CITY OF SOUTH SALT LAKE WITH SSL MARKET CENTER QOZB,
LLC PROVIDING FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF PROPERTY LOCATED AT 2280 SOUTH
STATE STREET KNOWN AS THE MARKET CENTER PROJECT.

      WHEREAS, the South Salt Lake City Council (“City Council”) is authorized by Utah Code
§§ 10-9a-102 and 10-9a-532 to enact ordinances, resolutions, and rules and enter into other forms
of land use controls including development agreements as necessary and appropriate for the use
and development of land within the City of South Salt Lake (“City”); and

      WHEREAS, an application for a zoning map amendment has been submitted to the City for
review and consideration to amend the South Salt Lake City Zoning Map to include the Housing
& Transit Overlay (HT) District to property owned by SSL Market Center QOZB, LLC (“Owner”)
located at 2280 South State Street; and

      WHEREAS, South Salt Lake City Municipal Code § 17.03.185 requires, as a condition
precedent to a rezone to the HT Overlay District, that a development agreement be executed by
the applicant, property owner, developer and the City; and

      WHEREAS, the City Council finds that the Development Agreement, in substantially the
form as attached herein as Exhibit A, adequately addresses the Owner’s commitments to the City
including project design, community management and development and meets the stated goals of
the HT Overlay;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the City Council of the City of South Salt Lake as
follows:

       1. The Development Agreement in substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit A,
          which is attached herein and incorporated by this reference, is hereby approved.
          a. The Mayor is authorized and directed to execute the same for and on behalf of the
             City.
          b. The Mayor is authorized to approve any minor modifications, amendments, or
             revisions to the Agreement as may be in the City’s best interest and in harmony
             with the overall intent and purpose of the Agreement.
          c. The Mayor’s signature upon the final Agreement will constitute the City Council’s
             acceptance of all such minor modifications, amendments, or revisions.

       2.     The effective date of the Agreement shall be the date as indicated in the Agreement.

       3.     This resolution immediately takes effect upon adoption.

                                [Signatures appear on next page]


APPROVED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of South Salt Lake, Utah, on this
______ day of __________, 2025.


                                    BY THE CITY COUNCIL:

                                    ____________________________________
                                    Sharla Bynum, Council Chair

City Council Vote as Recorded:

       Bynum:        ______
       deWolfe:      ______
       Huff:         ______
       Mitchell:     ______
       Sanchez:      ______
       Thomas:       ______
       Williams:     ______




ATTEST:

____________________________________
Ariel Andrus, City Recorder
          Exhibit A
Form of Development Agreement
WHEN RECORDED, MAIL TO:
City Recorder
City of South Salt Lake
220 E. Morris Avenue #200
Salt Lake City, Utah 84115

                  MASTER DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
               FOR THE MARKET CENTER DEVELOPMENT
  LOCATED AT 2263 SOUTH MAIN STREET, 54 EAST CENTRAL POINTE PLACE,
  2280 SOUTH STATE STREET, & 53 EAST HAVEN AVENUE, SOUTH SALT LAKE
                      SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH

        This Development Agreement (this “Agreement”) is entered into as of this ______ day of
____________, 2025 (“Effective Date”) by SSL Market Center QOZB, LLC, a Delaware
limited liability company (“SSLMC”), is the exclusive owner and record interest holder of certain
real property located in South Salt Lake, Salt Lake County, Utah, on which SSLMC proposes the
construction, operation, and use of a specific project known as Market Center, and by the City of
South Salt Lake, a municipality and political subdivision of the State of Utah (“City”), by and
through its City Council. For purposes of this Agreement, “Owner” refers to “SSLMC” and, with
respect to a Lot to be developed by an “Affiliate” (as defined in Section 4.12.7.2 below), such
Affiliate. The City and the Owner are jointly referred to as the “Parties”. Each party may be
referred to as a “Party”.

                                         R E C I TALS


        A.       The Project consists of 5.526 acres in the Station Subdistrict of the Downtown
District, the legal description of which is attached hereto as Exhibit A, and is incorporated herein
by this reference (the “Property”), for which the Owner has petitioned to upzone the Property to
a new Housing and Transit (HT) Overlay district, to enable a specific mixed use development and
operational parameters of the Project for the benefit of the Owner and the citizens of the City (the
“Upzone”), all as more fully described herein.

        B.     Owner has fully funded the private planning and engineering services required to
achieve conceptual approval of the Market Center project generally, and specific approval of Phase
I of the Market Center project, in an effort to induce the City to consider and approve Owner’s
upzone request and certain tax participation incentives and, in exchange, Owner commits to
develop a mixed use project, consisting of a minimum of 330,000 square feet of residential area,
and a maximum of 332,403 square feet of residential area, a minimum of 18,000 square feet of
commercial/retail area and a maximum of 19,200 square feet of commercial/retail area, a minimum
of 75,000 square feet of open space and a maximum of 80,581 square feet of open space and
amenities as more fully detailed herein, a minimum of 175,000 square feet and 470 code compliant
spaces of structured parking , and a minimum of 600 square feet of indoor bicycle storage, with
various commitments for public use and significant public benefits as a four phase development,
dispersed among four specifically designed structures and a variety of prescribed land uses and
operational commitments (the “Project”).


                                                 1
        C.     Owner requests entitlements to subdivide the Property into four lots (each, a “Lot”),
to accommodate specifically enhanced common areas to serve four specific structures, with
specific commitments regarding to the proposed articulation, fenestration, and finish materials of
each structure, specific iconic placemaking public art, landscaping, paseos, and both public and
residential amenities.

      D.       The financial strength, and the proven development and management experience of
the Owner:

       1. Is an essential inducement to:
              a. The City’s decision to Upzone the Property;
              b. Make a long-term commitment to the Owner that will allow for the successful
                  development and operation of the mixed use Project; and
       2. Render Owner a Qualified Owner/Operator as that term is used in this Agreement.

        E.     Owner, as a single purpose limited liability company, will not be considered a
qualified Owner/Operator if the principals of the Owner change, such that its current principals no
longer possess the same (or greater) level of expertise in developing and operating the Project as
described herein.

        F.     Owner agrees that development and operation of the mixed use Project under the
expanded development and land use parameters authorized by the new HT Overlay district
Upzone, enabled in tandem with this Agreement, is wholly contingent on its development,
authorized uses, and operation of the Property as specifically proposed and conditioned herein, on
its continued ownership and management of the Property by a Owner/Operator, or once the
Property is developed, a coalition of owners who, engage a Project operator with significantly
similar or superior resources, reputation, and experience as the Owner, and on each of successive
owner’s              commitments               as            set           forth           herein.

       G.      In anticipation of Project approval, and in consideration of the financial strength,
development reputation, and operational management reputation of the Owner’s principals, Owner
and the Redevelopment Authority of South Salt Lake City (RDA) have entered into a Tax
Increment Participation Agreement between dated May 29, 2024, (“Participation Agreement”)
and anticipate entering into an Amended and Restated Tax Increment Participation Agreement at
some point in the near future.

        H.     The Parties acknowledge that the development, management, and operation of the
Property pursuant to this Agreement and the Participation Agreement will add substantial
economic value for the Owner and offer the potential for significant beneficial redevelopment
within the City.

      I.      The Parties acknowledge that the specificity of the Parties’ commitments in this
Agreement will provide certainty for all Parties throughout the term of this Agreement.

        J.     The City has determined that the proposed development of the Property contains
features that advance the policies, goals, and objectives of the City General Plan, provide

                                                 2
substantial public benefits, a sustainable atmosphere desired by the citizens of the City, and will
result in planning and economic benefits to the City and to its residents.

       Now, therefore, in consideration of the mutual covenants, conditions, and considerations
as more fully set forth below, Owner and City hereby agree as follows:

1.     Recitals; Definitions. The foregoing recitals are incorporated herein by this reference.
Any capitalized term used but not defined in this Agreement shall have the meaning ascribed to
such defined term in the City’s land use regulations approved as of the date of this Agreement.

2.      Conditions Precedent. As conditions precedent to the obligations of the Parties:

     2.1 Conditions Precedent to Effect. This Agreement is contingent upon and shall become
         effective and shall render effective an amendment to the City zoning map to upzone the
         Property to the new Housing and Transit Overlay district, if and only if:

        2.1.1   This Agreement is approved by the City Council, and is signed and acknowledged
                by the Mayor and the Owner and if there are any additional owners or lien holders
                (Record Interest Holders), at the time of recordation, all Record Interest Holders in
                the Property have agreed that each Record Interest Holder’s rights are subordinate
                to           the           terms             of            this          Agreement;

        2.1.2   The City Council approves, and the Mayor executes and causes to be published, an
                ordinance and map amendment (subject to the terns of this Agreement) to Upzone
                the Property from its current zoning to the new HT Overlay district; and

        2.1.3   The Upzone and this Agreement is properly published and is not legally challenged
                or referred (or if challenged or referred, the Owner funds, in advance, and as
                requested, all of the City’s reasonable costs to defend the legal challenge to the
                Upzone and/or to this Agreement, and the City is ultimately successful in defending
                the             legal            challenge             or             referendum).

     2.2        Initial Execution of this Agreement Does Not Supersede Legislative Discretion.
The initial execution of this Agreement is neither intended to, nor does it affect, or in any way,
bind or supersede the independent exercise of legislative discretion by the City Council in
deciding whether to approve or deny the Owner’s petition to Upzone the Property, to contest
the results of any third-party legal challenge or referenda, nor to any future action of the
City Council that is generally required to ensure the health, safety, and welfare of the
citizens of the City.

     2.3.        Effect of Third-Party Challenge or Referendum. If the City Council’s decision to
Upzone the Property is contested by a third-party, or is referred to the voters, the Owner
understands that the favorable resolution of any contest to, or referendum of, the Upzone or this
Agreement is a condition precedent to that Upzone. Owner shall fund in advance, and as requested,
all of the City’s reasonable costs to defend the City and further Owner shall hold the City harmless
from any claims or challenges that arise from the Upzone.

                                                  3
     2.4.       Commitment to the Exclusive Development by Qualified and Approved Owner and
Operator. The rights and obligations exchanged herein are conveyed pursuant to the Owner’s
request for a comprehensive rezone, its commitment to dedicate portions of the Project to public
art and public use, its commitment to deed restrict 478 units of housing within the Project to
affordable housing use, and its commitment to subject the entire Property to this Agreement, which
rights and obligations herein have been extensively negotiated by all Parties. The rights and
obligations granted herein have been derived from the Owner’s submission of a concept Project
approval, a petition to rezone, an application for subdivision, an application for a specific Phase I
structure, its execution of this Agreement, all lienholders’ (if any, at the time of recording this
Agreement) consent and subordination to this Agreement, and its commitment to the City to
employ the specific development expertise of the Owner, or a similarly or superiorly qualified
owner, or association of owners, to develop, use, and operate the Project as proposed. As such, the
authority of the Owner to receive any Upzone granted herein, and thereafter to develop the
Property pursuant to the terms of this Agreement require the Owner or another similarly qualified
owner, or association of owners (with the prior written approval of the City granted pursuant the
terms                    of                  this                  Agreement),                    to:

    2.4.1.     develop, use, and operate the Project as provided herein;

    2.4.2.     develop, use, and operate the entire Project in the general order and sequence
provided                                      herein;                                     and

    2.4.3.     comply with the terms and conditions of this Agreement.

3.      Governing Regulations/Controlling Document. The Property shall be developed in
accordance and consistent with the requirements and benefits provided for under the proposed
HT Overlay district Upzoning, all as further constrained by the provisions of this Agreement. If
there is conflict between the City Code approved as of the same date of this Agreement, and this
Agreement, such that provision(s)) of the City Code approved as of the condition precedent to
the effect of this Agreement (or any subsequent amendment to the City Code) could be construed
to grant more development rights, or fewer development obligations, than are allowed by this
Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall control. The specific land use regulations,
standards, and (where applicable) deviations from standard provisions of the City Code approved
as of the date of this Agreement, shall be the zone-specific standards for the Project (the “Zone-
Specific Standards”) upon which the Owner, and the City may rely for the term of this Agreement,
subject only to the exigencies arising from the City’s declaration of an actual and compelling,
countervailing, public interest, as that term is defined in Western Land Equities, 617 P.2d 388
(Utah 1980), that would prevent the City from honoring its terms. The uses, configurations, and
densities authorized for the Project herein shall be governed by this Agreement, the Zone-Specific
Standards, and the City Code approved as of the Effective Date of this Agreement.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, any person applying for a building permit, subdivision plat, or site
plan, within the Property shall be subject to the building, electrical, mechanical, plumbing, and fire
codes, and the impact and permit application fees (unless adjusted herein), in effect at the time the
person files a complete application for that development with the City. To the extent that the Zone-
Specific Standards or this Agreement is silent as to any matter pertinent to the development of the

                                                  4
Project Area, and there has not been declaration of an actual and compelling, countervailing, public
interest that meets the requirements of this Agreement, the Parties rights and obligations shall be
controlled by the City Code in effect as of the Effective Date of this Agreement and by this
Agreement.

4.      Owner Obligations: In addition to the provisions of the City Code approved as of the
Effective Date of this Agreement, development of the Project Area shall be further constrained as
follows:

        4.1    Owner shall record a four-lot subdivision of the Property, with horizontal common
area improvements identified on the Site Plan attached hereto as Exhibit C, common access
easements for parking, common area, common access, and common use, and covenants,
conditions, and restrictions (“CC&Rs”) managed by a Master Owners’ Association or managed
in another manner acceptable to the City Attorney, which CC&Rs shall be to the satisfaction of
the City Attorney designating the City as both a Party and a third-party beneficiary of the common
access to certain amenities and parking easements with specific rights restricting amendment or
abandonment of the easements and a public utilities easement designated and dedicated to the
public on the plat, to the satisfaction of the City Engineer. The common access easements and
CC&Rs will be recorded simultaneously with the subdivision plat. Prior to completion of vertical
construction of any Building, Owner shall install or shall bond for the approved horizontal
common area infrastructure for the subdivision as currently shown on the Site Plan attached hereto
as Exhibit C, insofar as such infrastructure is required for such applicable Building (the
“Applicable Infrastructure”), and the Participation Agreement shall be amended to provide for
a loss of benefits to Owner under such Participation Agreement in the event that Owner fails to
complete such horizontal common area infrastructure as required herein.

       4.2     Owner shall construct the Project in phases.

        4.3.    Phase 1: Once the Applicable Infrastructure has been installed or adequately
assured through a cash deposit or proper letter of credit, as required, the first phase of the Project
shall include the required landscaping for Lot 1 as described in Exhibit D and 15 stalls of surface
parking associated with Lot 1 (containing 2.96 acres) and the construction, use, and operation of
Building 1 as follows:

                4.3.1. Building 1 Form and Materials: Building 1 shall be constructed, at a
minimum, with vertical and horizontal articulation as depicted and described in Exhibit E. To
assure the City that Owner will in fact construct Building 1 as proposed, Exhibit E includes
specific details regarding minimum fenestration, minimum transparency, building materials, and
limitations on the use of specific building materials for each façade:

                       South Façade: Total Area: 17,620 square feet
                                     Minimum # windows: 140
                                     Minimum façade transparency: 3,340 sq. ft. (19%)
                                     Minimum bricked area: 2,013 sq. ft. (11%)
                                     Maximum Hardie Board area: 1,149 sq. ft. (7%)
                                     Maximum stucco area: 10,501 sq. ft. (59%)

                                                  5
                         Minimum Fenestration area (excluding transparency): 617
                         sq. ft. (4%)

                         East Façade: Total Area: 21,578 square feet
                         Minimum # windows: 150
                         Minimum façade transparency: 6,069 sq. ft. (28%)
                         Minimum bricked area: 8,344 sq. ft. (39%)
                         Maximum stucco area: 6,812 sq. ft. (31%)
                         Minimum Fenestration area (excluding transparency): 323
                         sq. ft. (2%)

                         North Facade: Total Area: 21,506 sq. ft.
                         Minimum # windows: 45
                         Minimum façade transparency: 5,225 sq. ft. (24%)
                         Minimum bricked area: 10,357 sq. ft. (48.7%)
                         Maximum wood area: 64 sq. ft. (0.3%)
                         Maximum stucco area: 5,409 sq. ft. (25%)
                         Minimum Fenestration area (excluding transparency): 421
                         sq. ft. (2%)

          West Façade: Total Area: 19,689 square feet
                 Minimum # windows: 60
                        Minimum façade transparency: 2,378 sq. ft. (12%)
                        Minimum bricked area: 1,811 sq. ft. (9%)
                        Maximum stucco area: 14,172 sq. ft. (72%)
                        Minimum Fenestration area (excluding transparency): 1,328
                        sq. ft. (7%)

       Rooftop Deck and Community Room: at least 1,500 square feet of Indoor
Community Event Space and at least 1,500 square feet of well-appointed and soft-
scaped Rooftop Deck Event Space.

4.3.2 Building 1, Features: Building 1 features must include:

       4.3.2.1 uses and construction consistent with the approved floor plans
attached hereto as Exhibit F.

       4.3.2.2 upgraded, durable, floor coverings (finished concrete, wood, tile,
luxury vinyl) instead of carpet;

          4.3.2.3 solid residential unit entrance doors (in contrast to hollow-core
doors);

          4.3.2.4 a washer and dryer in each residential unit; and




                                    6
               4.3.2.5 minimum sound attenuation: wall assemblies with a minimum
       rating of 50 STC; floor/ceiling assemblies with a minimum rating of 50 STC;
       separating floor/ceiling assemblies with a minimum rating of 50 IIC;

               4.3.2.6 Rooftop Community Room/Event Space/Food Service. At least
       1,500 square feet of indoor community (resident, scheduled City, and scheduled
       public) space and at least 1,500 square feet of outdoor community (resident,
       scheduled City, and scheduled public) space on the rooftop level, with catering
       kitchen, restrooms, lounge rooms for guests of honor, and green scaping (trees,
       shrubs, raised planters), accessed from a secured elevator that will be available for
       meetings, weddings, parties, showers, receptions, and dinners throughout the year.
       Owner shall provide City reserved access to the rooftop community space (subject
       to availability based on a reasonable reservation system to be instituted by Owner),
       for City events, a minimum of 4 days per month, and no less than 48 days per year,
       from 8:00 am to 10:00 pm, upon 60 days’ advance notice to Owner, demonstration
       of adequate insurance, and payment to Owner of Owner’s marginal cost to provide
       such access to the City and compensation for any services requested by the City
       and provided by the Owner. It is anticipated that the reservations of the City shall
       be made on a reasonable basis over the course of a year (and not disproportionately
       during peak seasons, weekends, or other high demand times).

              4.3.2.7 Metal Awnings. The Owner shall install and maintain metal
       awnings, as shown on Exhibit E, at least 9 feet above finished grade and fully
       contained within the Lot 1 boundary.

       4.3.3 Building 1, Uses. Building 1 is a mixed-use structure, with residential,
commercial/retail, public event space, community common area, pedestrian and vehicular
access, landscaping, and structured parking in the following minimum required
components:

                4.3.3.1 Minimum Residential Component: The residential component of
      Building 1 shall contain 255 units, the configuration of which shall be: 10 units
      constructed as studio apartments, 128 as one-bedroom units, 81 as two-bedroom
      units, and 36 as three-bedroom units. 100% of the residential units within Building
      1 shall be deed restricted as affordable housing, with an overall average unit mix of
      at least “60% AMI Housing.” For purposes of this Agreement, 60% AMI Housing
      means both of the following are true with respect to the applicable unit: (i) the tenant
      of the unit has an annual income that is no more than 60% of the area median income
      for Salt Lake County, based on household size, according to income statistics or
      guidelines published by the United States Housing and Urban Development, as
      measured at the time such tenant enters into a lease for the applicable unit, and (ii)
      the monthly rent for tenant does not exceed 30% of the tenant's gross monthly
      income, as such is measured at the time such tenant enters into a lease for the
      applicable unit. Building 1 is further subject to specific affordable housing
      obligations as detailed in the Participation Agreement attached hereto as Exhibit B.
      Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event of a foreclosure or deed in lieu of
      foreclosure by a mortgagee, the above affordability restrictions will terminate.
                                         7
         4.3.3.2 Minimum Commercial/Retail Component. The commercial
component of Building 1 shall include, at a minimum, 3,800 square feet of
commercial/retail space located on the ground floor, on the north side of Building 1
and Owner shall use its best efforts to activate and open the commercial/retail space
as soon as reasonably possible to the public after receipt of a certificate of occupancy
for Building 1 and continuing throughout the duration of this Agreement. The
commercial component of Building 1 is subject to the Use restrictions in the HT
Overlay district and specific obligations detailed in the Participation Agreement
attached hereto as Exhibit B, including sub-market rent commitments to attract local
businesses for a period of five (5) years from the date on which the commercial/retail
component first achieves 85% occupancy.

         4.3.3.3 Minimum Structured Parking. All 470 stalls of required structured
parking for development of the Property shall be constructed within Building 1.
Owner shall provide at least eight (8) dual-head electric vehicle (EV) chargers (16
total) upon completion of the project and shall install conduit to accommodate 30
future dual-head EV chargers (60 total) as the demand for EV chargers increases.
An irrevocable cross access easement shall be established to ensure free access by
residents of the Project to at least 310 stalls of residential tenant parking for the uses
associated with each lot in the Project. Owner may charge no more than 5% of a
tenant’s rent for reserved access to the remaining 160 structured parking stalls within
the project. Owner shall provide public access to 160 stalls within Building 1 from
8:00 AM to 10:00 PM, with the first 2 hours of individual parking stall use free to
members of the public each day (and thereafter parking charges will be at market-
based rates), all as described more fully and attached hereto as Exhibit B.

         4.3.3.4 Minimum Lobby area: 600 square feet.

        4.3.3.5 Minimum 2,000 square feet of full time on-site management and
leasing offices, serving all three residential buildings.

        4.3.3.6 Sustainable Design, Construction, and Operations: Owner shall
design, construct, and operate the Project in accordance with the standards
necessary to achieve certification under the 2020 Enterprise Green Communities
(EGC) Criteria and in alignment with the details found in Exhibit M. Owner shall
provide the City with documentation evidencing certification compliance or
conditional approval from EGC prior to issuance of final Certificates of
Occupancy for Building 1. Sustainable Site and Building Features at a minimum
shall include:

                a.     Use of low-impact development strategies, including
                      native/adapted landscaping and efficient irrigation;

                b.    Indoor potable water use reduction of at least 30% from
                      baseline using high-efficiency fixtures and appliances;

                                    8
                      c.    Installation of ENERGY STAR appliances and LED lighting
                            with appropriate controls;

                      d.    Infrastructure to support future rooftop solar panel
                            installation;

                      e.    Use of low-emitting and durable materials, including water-
                            resistant finishes in wet areas;

                      f.    Construction waste management practices that divert at least
                            75% of waste from landfills or divert 100% of waste from two
                            or more waste streams; and,

                      g.    Eight (8) dual-head EV chargers, 16 total. Owner shall install
                            conduit for future expansion of up to 30 additional dual-head
                            charging stations and shall install conduit to accommodate 30
                            future dual-head EV chargers (60 total) as the demand for EV
                            chargers increases.

              4.3.3.7   Healthy    Living    Environment. Adequate         ventilation,
       dehumidification, pest management, and indoor air quality measures shall be
       incorporated and maintained in accordance with the EGC standards. Owner shall
       provide the City with annual compliance documentation verifying continued
       adherence to EGC standards for a minimum period of five (5) years following the
       issuance         of        a         Certificate        of          Occupancy.

       4.3.4 Building 1, Required Resident Amenities. At a minimum, Owner has
committed to build and offer to all residents within Building 1, at no additional charge or
cost to residents, the following resident amenities in location, type, and size:

            4.3.4.1      At least 1,500 square feet of co-working space centrally located
      on the ground floor of Building 1 and accessible to all residents of the project. At a
      minimum, Owner shall provide private conference rooms, workstations, booths
      designed for both adults and students, and restrooms;

             4.3.4.2     At least 2,500 square feet of a well-maintained and equipped
      indoor fitness center located on the ground floor of Building 1 and accessible to all
      residents of the project, 18 hours per day, seven days per week. At a minimum,
      Owner shall provide cardio and strength equipment/machines, yoga room, and
      restrooms;

            4.3.4.3        At least 1,000 square feet of a centralized secure mail and
      package room;

            4.3.4.4     At least 600 square feet of resident-only secure bicycle parking
      and repair room located in the garage;


                                         9
             4.3.4.5     At least 150 square feet of an interior dog wash area located in
      the garage of Building 1 and accessible to all residents of the project;

            4.3.4.6      At least 6,000 square feet of common interior social area, open to
      residents and their guests, located on the 6th floor of Building 1. At a minimum,
      Owner shall provide a game lounge, clubroom, lounge, restrooms, and a catering
      kitchen within this area;

             4.3.4.7     At least 3,000 square feet of common exterior social area, open
      to residents and their guests, located on the 6th floor of Building 1. At a minimum,
      Owner shall provide covered/uncovered seating, lounge chairs, outdoor games, a
      fireplace, and barbeques directly connected to and accessible from the space
      described in subsection 4.3.4.6 above;

             4.3.4.8    At least 1,000 square feet of combined rooftop pool, spa, and
      entertainment area;

            4.3.4.9    At least 3,000 square feet of exterior courtyards located on the
      second-floor podium deck, with seating areas, fire pits, and lounge chairs for
      residents;

              4.3.4.10     At least 1,000 square feet of centralized trash and recycling in the
      first floor, structured parking area available to all Project tenants;

             4.3.4.11     Keyless door entry (o equivalent technology) for each unit;

             4.3.4.12     Uniform window treatments throughout the Project;

             4.3.4.13     Stainless steel, or equivalent quality, appliances;

            4.3.4.14  Functional balconies on at least 44 units, as shown in Exhibit F,
      on which Owner shall prohibit all outdoor storage (including bicycle storage); and

           4.3.4.15     Access to the children’s play area and dog park depicted on
      Exhibit N, at no charge in excess of common area maintenance fees, upon
      completion of horizontal improvements on Lot 4.

       4.3.5 Building 1: Public Amenities/Public Art. Owner shall install and maintain in
operation throughout the term of this Agreement, the following additional public amenities,
public benefits, and public art:

               4.3.5.1 Public Art: Owner shall install and maintain a public art mural
(without advertising) on at least 20% of the west-facing façade of Building 1, beginning
on the south west corner of the structure, prior to receiving a certificate of occupancy for
any other Building within the Project, all to the reasonable satisfaction of the Board Chair
of the South Salt Lake City Arts Council.



                                         10
                       4.3.5.2 Art Panels Storage and Display: Owner shall store 13 art panels
       provided by the City during the construction of the Project. Upon completion of vertical
       construction, Developer shall coordinate with its interior design team to incorporate the art
       panels into the Project in a manner that ensures they are publicly viewable. The art panels
       shall not be displayed or installed at any location outside the City. Any art panels not
       incorporated into the Project shall be returned to the City within 90 days after Certificate
       of Occupancy issued for Building 1.

                       4.3.5.3 Bike Racks: Bike racks to accommodate at least 15 bicycles in front
               of the first-floor retail space.

        4.4.   Phase 2: Subject to any event of force majeure, a failure of the City to perform its
obligations of this Agreement, or other causes outside of the reasonable control of the Owner,
Phase 2 of the Project and the construction of Building 2 must commence no later than three years
from issuance of a building permit for Building 1 and shall not be occupied prior to completion of
Building 1. Phase 2 shall include installation of the required landscaping for Lot 2 (as described
in Exhibit D) and the completion of 8 stalls of surface parking associated within Lot 2 as depicted
on Exhibit C, and subject to receipt of approval by the Utah Transit Authority, completion of
improvements to the southern half of the “Boulevard Property”, from the center line of Central
Pointe Place from State Street to Main Street, with bollards constructed in the same intervals. The
construction of Building 2, its landscaping, and parking must be completed within 30 months of
the commencement of construction of Building 2. Building 2 shall be constructed and operated as
follows:

        4.4.1. Building 2 Form and Materials: Building 2 shall be constructed, at a minimum, with
vertical and horizontal articulation, and may include a third floor sky bridge from Building 1 to
Building 2, all as depicted and described in Exhibit G. To assure the City that Owner will in fact
construct Building 2, as Owner has proposed, Exhibit G includes specific details regarding
minimum fenestration, minimum transparency, building materials, and limitations on the use of
specific building materials for each façade, which material amounts described below may vary by
no more than 10%, upon request from the Owner, and at the sole discretion of the Community and
Economic Director:

                      South Façade: Total Area: 5,755 square feet
                                    Minimum # windows: 40
                                    Minimum façade transparency: 1,363 sq. ft. (24%)
                                    Minimum bricked area: 3,987 sq. ft. (69%)
                                    Maximum stucco area: 405 sq. ft. (7%)


                      East Façade: Total Area: 22,016 square feet
                                   Minimum # windows: 65
                                   Minimum façade transparency: 5,875 sq. ft. (27%)
                                   Minimum bricked area: 11,493 sq. ft. (52%)




                                                11
                         Maximum exposed smooth finished concrete area: 737 sq.
                 ft. (3%)
                         Minimum wood area: 250 sq. ft. (1.8%)
                         Maximum stucco area:3,631 sq. ft. (16%)
                         Minimum Fenestration area (excluding transparency): 48
                         sq. ft. (0.2%)

                         North Facade: Total Area: 3,762 square feet
                         Minimum # windows: 20
                         Minimum façade transparency: 1,261 sq. ft. (34%)
                         Minimum bricked area: 1,735 sq. ft. (46%)
                         Maximum exposed smooth finished concrete area: 268 sq.
                 ft. (7%)
                         Maximum wood area: 326 sq. ft. (9%)
                         Maximum stucco area: 142 sq. ft. (4%)


          West Façade: Total Area: 21,474 square feet
                         Minimum # windows: 130
                         Minimum transparency per floor: 6,198 sq. ft. (29%)
                         Minimum bricked area: 8,325 sq. ft. (39%)
                         Maximum exposed smooth finished concrete area: 604 sq.
                 ft. (3%)
                         Minimum wood area: 263 sq. ft. (1%)
                         Maximum stucco area: 6,084 sq. ft. (28%)

4.4.2 Building 2, Features. Building 2 features shall include:

       4.4.2.1 uses and construction consistent with both the HT Overlay district
and the approved floor plans attached hereto as Exhibit H.

       4.4.2.3 upgraded, durable floor coverings (finished concrete, wood, tile,
luxury vinyl) instead of carpet;

          4.4.2.4 solid residential unit entrance doors (in contrast to hollow-core
doors);

          4.4.2.5 a washer and dryer in each residential unit;

        4.4.2.6 minimum sound attenuation: wall assemblies with a minimum
rating of 50 STC; floor/ceiling assemblies with a minimum rating of 50 STC;
separating floor/ceiling assemblies with a minimum rating of 50 IIC;

     4.4.2.7 Metal Awnings. Owner shall install and maintain metal awnings, as
shown on Exhibit G, at least nine (9) feet above finished grade;



                                   12
     4.4.3 Building 2, Uses. Building 2 is a mixed-use structure, with residential and
commercial/retail space in the following minimum required components:

               4.4.3.1 Minimum Residential Component: The residential component of
      Building 2 shall contain 138 units, the configuration of which shall be: 21 units
      constructed as studio apartments, 79 as one-bedroom units, 25 as two-bedroom units,
      and 13 as three-bedroom units (“Building 2 Unit Mix”). 100% units of the 138
      residential units within Building 2 shall be deed restricted as affordable housing,
      with an overall average unit mix of at least 60% AMI Housing. Building 2 is further
      subject to specific affordable housing obligations as detailed in the Participation
      Agreement attached hereto as Exhibit B. Developer shall have the right to modify
      the Building 2 Unit Mix in its good faith and commercially reasonable judgment so
      long as the modification does not result in more than 138 residential units in Building
      2 or in raising the housing attainability commitment of 60% of AMI.
      Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event of a foreclosure or deed in lieu of
      foreclosure by a mortgagee, the above affordability restrictions will terminate.

               4.4.3.2 Minimum Commercial/Retail Component. The commercial
      component of Building 2 shall include, at a minimum 6,500 square feet of
      commercial/retail space. The commercial component of Building 2 is subject to the
      Use restrictions in the HT Overlay district and specific obligations detailed in the
      Participation Agreement attached hereto as Exhibit B.

              4.4.3.3 Minimum Lobby area: 150 square feet.

               4.4.3.4 Sustainable Design, Construction, and Operations: Owner shall
       design, construct, and operate the Project in accordance with the standards
       necessary to achieve certification under the 2020 Enterprise Green Communities
       (EGC) Criteria. Owner shall provide the City with documentation evidencing
       certification compliance or conditional approval from EGC prior to issuance of
       final Certificates of Occupancy for Building 2. Sustainable Site and Building
       Features at a minimum shall include:

                     a.    Use of low-impact development strategies, including
                           native/adapted landscaping and efficient irrigation;

                     b.    Indoor potable water use reduction of at least 30% from
                           baseline through the installation of high-efficiency fixtures
                           and appliances;

                     c.    Installation of ENERGY STAR appliances and LED lighting
                           with appropriate controls;

                     d.    Infrastructure to support future rooftop solar panel
                           installation;


                                        13
                       e.    Use of low-emitting and durable materials, including water-
                             resistant finishes in wet areas; and

                       f.    Construction waste management practices that divert at least
                             75% of waste from landfills or divert 100% of waste from two
                             or more waste streams;

               4.4.3.5    Healthy     Living     Environment. Adequate          ventilation,
               dehumidification, pest management, and indoor air quality measures shall
               be incorporated and maintained in accordance with the EGC standards.
               Owner shall provide the City with annual compliance documentation
               verifying continued adherence to EGC standards for a minimum period of
               five (5) years following the issuance of a Certificate of Occupancy.

      4.4.4 Building 2, Required Resident Amenities. At a minimum, Owner has
committed to build and offer to all residents within Building 2 the following resident
amenities in location and size:

             4.4.4.1        Keyless door entry (or equivalent technology) for each unit;

             4.4.4.2        Uniform window treatments throughout the Project;

             4.4.4.3        Stainless steel, or equivalent quality, appliances;

            4.4.4.4    Functional balconies on 16 units, as shown in Exhibit G, on
      which Owner shall prohibit all outdoor storage (including bicycle storage);

            4.4.4.5    Access to all common amenities of Building 1, at no charge in
      excess of common area maintenance fees;

             4.4.4.6      Access to structured parking within Building 1, at no charge in
      excess of common area maintenance fees (except as otherwise specifically provided
      in Section 4.3.3.3); and

            4.4.4.7    Access to the children’s play area and dog park depicted on
      Exhibit N, upon completion of horizontal improvements on Lot 4 at no charge in
      excess of common area maintenance fees.

       4.4.5 Building 2: Public Amenities/Public Art. Owner shall install and maintain,
throughout the term of this Agreement, the following public amenities:

       4.4.5.1 Building 2 Public Art/Neon Sign: Subject to City approval, a 13.5-foot tall,
37.3-foot wide Neon rooftop sign on Building 2, which shall present to the public in the
same form, manner, color, materials, and appeal as shown below, which Neon Art shall be
illuminated 24 hours per day, 7 days per week, 365 days per year, or such hours approved
by the City, throughout the term of this Agreement:


                                           14
               4.4.5.2 Art Panels Storage and Display: Owner shall store 13 art panels provided
       by the City during the construction of the Project. Upon completion of vertical
       construction, Developer shall coordinate with its interior design team to incorporate the art
       panels into the Project in a manner that ensures they are publicly viewable. The art panels
       shall not be displayed or installed at any location outside the City. Any art panels not
       incorporated into the Project shall be returned to the City within 90 days after Certificate
       of Occupancy issued for Building 2.

               4.4.5.3 Bike Racks: Bike racks to accommodate 15 bicycles in front of the first-
       floor retail space.

               4.4.5.4 At a minimum, 6,000 square feet of ground floor retail/commercial space.

              4.4.5.5 At a minimum, 1,000 square feet of outdoor dining space connected to and
       accessible from the space described in subsection 4.4.5.3.

        4.5. Phase 3: Phase 3 of the Project and construction of Building 3 shall commence no
later than four years from issuance of a building permit for Building 1 and shall not be occupied
prior to completion of Building 1. Phase 3 shall include the required landscaping for Lot 3 as
described in Exhibit D and 8 stalls of surface parking associated with Lot 3 (Exhibit C) and the
construction and operation of Building 3 as follows:

        4.5.1. Building 3 Form and Materials: Building 3 shall be constructed, at a minimum, with
vertical and horizontal articulation as depicted and described in Exhibit I. To assure the City that
Owner will in fact construct Building 3, as Owner has proposed, Exhibit I includes specific details
regarding minimum fenestration, transparency, building materials, and limitations on the use of
specific building materials for each façade, which material amounts described below may vary by


                                                15
no more than 10%, upon request from the Owner, and at the sole discretion of the Community and
Economic Director:.

                        South Façade: Total Area: 11,968 square feet
                                      Minimum # windows: 95
                                      Minimum façade transparency: 2,549 sq. ft. (21%)
                                      Minimum bricked area: 934 sq. ft. (8%)
                                      Maximum stucco area: 8,384 sq. ft. (70 %)
                                      Fenestration area (excluding transparency): 104 sq. ft. (1%)

                        East Façade: Total Area: 7,165 square feet
                                     Minimum # windows: 50
                                     Minimum transparency per floor: 1,629 sq. ft. (23%)
                                     Minimum bricked area: 2,243 sq. ft. (31%)
                                     Maximum stucco area: 3,293 sq. ft. (46%)

                        North Façade: Total Area: 11,872 square feet
                                      Minimum # windows: 100
                                      Minimum façade transparency: 2,657 sq. ft. (22%)
                                      Minimum bricked area: 6,050 sq. ft. (51%)
                                      Maximum stucco area: 3,165 sq. ft. (27%)

                        West Façade: Total Area: 6,441 square feet
                                     Minimum # windows: 50
                                     Minimum façade transparency: 1,188 sq. ft. (19%)
                                     Maximum stucco area: 5,253 sq. ft. (81%)

              4.5.2 Building 3, Features. Building 3 features shall include:

                     4.5.2.1 uses and construction consistent with the HT Overlay district and
              the approved floor plans attached hereto as Exhibit L.

                     4.5.2.2 upgraded, durable floor coverings (finished concrete, wood, tile,
              luxury vinyl) instead of carpet;

                        4.5.2.3 solid residential unit entrance doors (in contrast to hollow-core
              doors);

                      4.5.2.4 minimum sound attenuation: wall assemblies with a minimum
              rating of 55 STC; floor/ceiling assemblies with a minimum rating of 50 STC;
              separating floor/ceiling assemblies with a minimum rating of 50 IIC; and

                    4.5.2.4 Metal Awnings. Owner shall install and maintain metal awnings, as
              shown on Exhibit I, at least nine (9) feet above finished grade.

             4.5.3 Building 3, Uses. Building 3 is a residential structure, with the following
       minimum required components:

                                                16
         4.5.3.1 Minimum Residential Component: The residential component of
Building 3 shall contain 85 units, the configuration of which shall be: 5 units
constructed as studio apartments, 41 as one-bedroom units, 24 as two-bedroom units,
and 25 as three-bedroom units (“Building 3 Unit Mix”). 100% units of the 85
residential units within Building 3 shall be deed restricted as affordable housing,
with an overall average unit mix of at least 60% AMI Housing. Building 3 is further
subject to specific affordable housing obligations as detailed in the Participation
Agreement attached hereto as Exhibit B. Owner may adjust the Building 3 Unit Mix
in its good faith and commercially reasonable judgment so long as the modification
does not result in more than 85 residential units in Building 3 or in raising the
housing attainability commitment of 60% of AMI. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
in the event of a foreclosure or deed in lieu of foreclosure by a mortgagee, the above
affordability restrictions will terminate.

        4.5.3.2 Minimum          Lobby        area:      150        square          feet.

        4.5.3.3 Sustainable Design, Construction, and Operations: Owner shall
design, construct, and operate the Project in accordance with the standards
necessary to achieve certification under the 2020 Enterprise Green Communities
(EGC) Criteria. Owner shall provide the City with documentation evidencing
certification compliance or conditional approval from EGC prior to issuance of
final Certificates of Occupancy for Building 2. Sustainable Site and Building
Features at a minimum shall include:

            a. Use of low-impact development strategies, including
            native/adapted landscaping and efficient irrigation;

            b. Indoor potable water use reduction of at least 30% from baseline
            through the use of high-efficiency fixtures and appliances;

            c. Installation of ENERGY STAR appliances and LED lighting with
            appropriate controls;

            d. Infrastructure to support future rooftop solar panel installation;

               e.       Use of low-emitting and durable materials, including water-
               resistant finishes in wet areas; and

               f.      Construction waste management practices that divert at
               least 75% of waste from landfills or divert 100% of waste from two
               or more waste streams.

       4.4.3.5   Healthy    Living    Environment. Adequate        ventilation,
dehumidification, pest management, and indoor air quality measures shall be
incorporated and maintained in accordance with the EGC standards. Owner shall

                                  17
               provide the City with annual compliance documentation verifying continued
               adherence to EGC standards for a minimum period of five (5) years following the
               issuance of a Certificate of Occupancy.

               4.5.4 Building 3, Required Resident Amenities. At a minimum, throughout the term
       of this Agreement, Owner has committed to build and offer to all residents within Building
       3 the following resident and Project amenities in location and size:

                    4.5.4.1    At least 150 square feet of ground floor, centralized secure mail
              and package room;

                     4.5.4.2     Keyless door entry (or equivalent technology) for each unit;

                     4.5.4.3     Uniform window treatments throughout the Project;

                     4.5.4.4     Stainless steel, or equivalent quality, appliances;

                   4.5.4.5      Functional balconies on 14 units, as shown in Exhibit I on which
              Owner shall prohibit all outdoor storage (including bicycle storage);;

                    4.5.4.6   Access to all common amenities of Building 1, at no charge in
              excess of common area maintenance fees;

                     4.5.4.7      Access to structured parking within Building 1, at no charge in
              excess of common area maintenance fees (except as otherwise specifically provided
              in Section 4.3.3.3);

                   4.5.4.8      Access to the children’s play area and dog park depicted on
              Exhibit N, at no charge, upon completion of horizontal improvements on Lot 4;

                    4.5.4.9      900 square feet of an exterior dog park accessible for Project
              residents and their guests as shown on Exhibit N upon completion of horizontal
              improvements on Lot 4; and

                     4.5.4.10     600 square feet of a children’s play area for Project residents and
              their guests, at no charge, as shown on Exhibit N.

        4.6.    Phase 4: Phase 4 of the Project may commence at any time after Phase 1 is
substantially complete and shall commence within five (5) years of the certificate of occupancy
for Building 1. It shall include the required landscaping for Lot 4 as described in Exhibit D, and
the construction and operation of Building 4 and Lot 4 amenities as follows:

        4.6.1. Building 4 Form and Materials: Building 4 is a single-story commercial structure
that shall be constructed, at a minimum, with vertical and horizontal articulation as depicted and
described in Exhibit K. To assure the City that Owner will in fact construct Building 4, as Owner
has proposed, Exhibit K includes specific details regarding minimum fenestration, transparency,
building materials, and limitations on the use of specific building materials for each façade. Owner
may use stucco on the exterior of Building 4.

                                                18
       4.6.2 Building 4, Features. Building 4 features shall include construction consistent with
the approved floor plans attached hereto as Exhibit L.

       4.6.3 Building 4, Uses. Building 4 is a retail/commercial structure, with parking in
Building 1for guests and employees of commercial/retail Uses in Building 4 consistent with
Section 4.3.3.3 above.

       4.6.4 Lot 4 development. Prior to obtaining a certificate of occupancy for Building 4,
Owner must complete all landscaping detailed in Exhibit D, as well as an 600 square foot
children’s play area, and a 900 square foot, fenced dog park, all as further depicted on the
renderings attached hereto as Exhibit N.

        4.7      Impact Fees. Unless waived by the City Council or reimbursed to Owner by South
Salt Lake in accordance with applicable criteria, and subject to applicable law (including but not
limited to Utah Code Ann. 10-9a-532(2)), Owner and its successors agree to pay the impact fees
imposed and as uniformly established by the South Salt Lake Municipal Code as of the date of
each impact fee payment, subject to applicable state law regarding such fees which may be in
effect at the time such impact fees are paid by the Owner.

         4.8    Construction Mitigation/Utilities. Owner agrees that prior to the issuance of any
building permit for the Project, Owner is required to execute: (a) a construction mitigation plan,
(b) utility plans, (c) a storm water run-off and drainage plan, and (d) a landscape and irrigation
plan showing adequate on-site storm water detention facilities.

       4.9     Water District. Owner shall comply with all requirements and conditions of the
Water District prior to the issuance of any building permits for the Project.

        4.10 Real Covenant. Owner/owner acknowledges that this Agreement is intended to run
with the land (the Property) and shall bind all successors in interest and assigns of any of Owner’s
interests in any lot, unit or parcel within the Project.

      4.11 Continuing Owners/HOA-Related Obligations.

           a. Master HOA. Before the first certificate of occupancy, Owner(s) shall form and
              register a Master Owners Association (“MOA”) for the entire Project and shall
              cause this MOA to maintain all exterior surfaces, paths, drives, pedestrian plazas,
              mutual access easements, parking, private and public amenities, including public
              art, and landscaping (collectively called “Project Common Area Amenities”), or
              the Project Common Area Amenities shall be maintained in accordance with a
              management regime otherwise acceptable to the City Attorney.

           b. Maintenance of Project Amenities, and Improvements. Owner/s and MOA shall
              fund and cause to be installed and maintained all Project Common Area Amenities
              throughout the term of this Agreement.


                                                19
    c. Landscaping and Maintenance Plan for the Property. Owner is responsible to
       install and maintain, or cause the MOA to maintain, all landscaping including, but
       not limited to, irrigation, regular pruning, and replacement of dead materials, and
       the landscaping within the Project.

    d. General Indemnification and Hold Harmless. Owner shall, at all times, protect,
       indemnify, save harmless and defend (“Indemnify”) the City and its agents,
       employees, officers, and elected officials from and against any and all harm, loss,
       or liability, and all other damage or damages of every kind and nature made,
       rendered, or incurred by or in behalf of any person or persons whomsoever,
       including the Parties hereto and their employees, which may arise out of or relate
       to the rights and obligations under this Agreement, whether caused by an owner,
       the Owner, their agents, employees, subcontractors, or suppliers or other third
       parties. Owner and owner(s) are not obligated to Indemnify the City for the City’s
       breach of contract with the Parties, for the gross negligence of its officials or
       employees, nor for payment of damages claims precluded by U.C.A. 63G-7 Part 4,
       as amended.

4.12. Limits on Development Rights and Transferability. NO PORTION OF THE
PROPERTY MAY BE SOLD OR DEVELOPED EXCEPT AS PROVIDED
HEREIN:

4.12.1 OWNER REPRESENTS THAT IT IS THE SOLE CURRENT TITLE AND
       BENEFICIAL INTEREST OWNER IN ALL PROPERTY WITHIN THE
       PROJECT AREA AND THAT THERE ARE NO LIEN HOLDERS IN TITLE,
       OTHER THAN THE SSLC REDEVELOPMENNT AUTHORITY, AND
       THAT ALL PROPERTY WITHIN THE PROJECT IS WITHOUT LIEN OR
       ENCUMBRANCE, OTHER THAN PROPERTY TAXES NOT YET DUE OR
       PAYABLE.

4.12.2 The Parties fully expect that the Owner intends to sell or transfer designated
       components of the Project to third parties that are not wholly owned and controlled
       affiliates of the Owner, subject expressly to the rights and obligations of this
       Agreement. Every sale to such third party shall include a written acknowledgement
       by the buyer, recorded on the property to be purchased by the buyer prior to the sale
       and the recordation of any purchase money financing, in a form substantially
       similar to the form attached as Exhibit T and approved as to both form and content
       prior to recording by the City Attorney’s office, in which the third party expressly
       commits to abide by the terms of this Agreement, to construct and maintain all
       amenities associated with the property, and that the third party fully understands the
       City’s expectations for its development under the terms of this Agreement. A third-
       party buyer does not include a residential or retail tenant.


                                         20
4.12.3. Exclusive Standards for Development Application and Qualified Owner/Operator.
        Because of Owner’s experience in similar, large scale, urban developments, the
        City has determined that the current Owner is qualified to develop the Property and,
        as such, has granted the Owner substantial latitude and temporal flexibility in the
        development approval process that are not afforded to other property owners who
        develop in any other zone in the City. The Parties agree that as an inducement to
        Upzone and contract herein, the City has relied on the Owner’s commitment to
        develop and manage the property through a Qualified Owner/Operator to assure
        implementation of the Agreement and to realize a high-quality, mixed-use
        community within the Project. As such, no portion of the Project may be developed
        by an entity other than the current Owner including its principal members without
        the current Owner’s request, and the City Council’s prior written consent, which
        consent may be withheld if the requesting Party cannot demonstrate that the
        proposed Owner/Operator:
        4.12.3.1    Is managed by an entity whose principals have the same or even higher
                    level of expertise and experience in development of a high-quality
                    urban mixed-use community, whose experience as of the date of this
                    Agreement        is     on      record       with      the      City;

        4.12.3.2    Agrees to abide by this Agreement to the satisfaction of the City; and

        4.12.3.3    Has financial capacity and access to capital that is at least equivalent
                    to the original Owner and has sufficient financial capacity to complete
                    development and operation of the Project with the same skill and in the
                    same manner as the original Owner is obligated to provide under this
                    Agreement.

    4.12.4. Assignment of Owner’s Obligations Under this Agreement.
             4.12.4.1 Owner shall maintain the same level (or a higher level) of expertise
                     in developing quality, urban, mixed-use communities, as it possessed
                     through its principals of record on the date of this Agreement. Owner
                     shall not assign, delegate, or transfer its rights and obligations to act
                     as the Owner in this Agreement without the prior written approval by
                     the City. Any attempt to assign, delegate, or transfer Owner’s rights
                     or obligations (as the Qualified Owner/Operator) without the City’s
                     prior written approval, will be void ab initio. Approval by the City
                     shall not be required for any mortgage on any Phase, nor for any
                     foreclosure or deed in lieu of foreclosure in connection with any such
                     mortgage. Any such request for assignment of Owner’s obligations
                     may be made by letter addressed to the Mayor as provided herein. The
                     assignment of Owner’s obligations to manage the development of the
                     Project shall require the assignee, or the new principals of the Owner,
                     to the extent the principals of the Owner change, to demonstrate to the

                                         21
                           City that the criteria established in Section 4.12.3 above continue to be
                           met, to sign a form of acknowledgement and consent to be bound by
                           the terms of this Agreement. At a minimum, such assignment,
                           delegation, or transfer shall account for the delegate’s, assignee’s, or
                           transferee’s:
                            (1) assumption of the obligation to develop and operate enhanced
                                community amenities;
                            (2) obligation to include within its principal ownership a
                                management team with the demonstrated experience that is
                                equivalent to the combined experience of the principals of the
                                original Owner throughout the remaining development and
                                operation of the Project; and
                            (3) proof of access to sufficient financial resources to complete
                                development and continued operation of the Project throughout
                                the term of this Agreement.
                   4.12.4.2 If any portion of this restriction on assignment of Master Owner’s
                            obligations is deemed invalid, the assignment shall be void.
               4.12.5 Prior to transfer of title, Owner shall obtain from the transferee a executed
                      original of Exhibit R, demonstrating the third party’s commitment to the
                      City to abide by this Agreement, and the City’s consent to the transfer, all
                      to the reasonable satisfaction of the City Attorney.
               4.12.6 Owner shall not transfer control of Owner from its principals of record as
                      of the date of this Agreement without first obtaining approval from the
                      City, under the same criteria as described above for an assignment of its
                      rights and obligations as set forth above.
               4.12.7 Notwithstanding the foregoing:
                   4.12.7.1 any transfer in connection with a foreclosure or deed in lieu of
                           foreclosure by a mortgagee, or any subsequent transfer, shall not
                           require consent by the City. Further, no mortgagee shall be required to
                           complete construction of any Phase.
                   4.12.7.2 any transfer of one or more Lots to an affiliate entity or other entity
                           which is controlled by or under common management control (an
                           “Affiliate”) with Owner (for debt or equity financing or other similar
                           purposes), shall not require consent by the City, it being acknowledged
                           and agreed that for purposes of this Agreement, “Owner” also shall
                           refer to such Affiliate, as an owner of an applicable Lot comprising a
                           portion of the Project.


     4.13. Conflicting Terms. If any term in this Agreement conflicts with the City Code
approved as of the date of this Agreement, the City Code approved as of the date of this
Agreement shall govern.

                                               22
5.     South Salt Lake Obligations

        5.1   Street Closure. The City agrees to initiate the public process with the Utah Transit
Authority to close a portion of Central Point Place to public vehicular access adjacent to the
Project.

        5.2    Processing Applications. The City shall approve development applications
submitted by the Owner with respect to the Project if such applications comply with this
Agreement, the International Building Code, the HT Overlay district, applicable sections of the
South Salt Lake Municipal Code that are in effect on the date such application is filed with the
City. The City shall promptly and fairly process Owner’s applications. If the City determines it
does not have enough staff to promptly process Owner’s applications, and if Owner fully-funds its
request to engage third party professionals to assist the City’s review of any such applications, the
City shall consider in good faith engaging outside professionals to process Owner’s application.

        5.3     Municipal Services. Subject to Owner’s performance of its obligations hereunder,
and consistent with the terms and conditions provided herein, the City agrees that it shall provide
the Project with standard municipal services in compliance with state laws and the South Salt Lake
City Code to the level of service feasible under City staffing and budgeting constraints, which level
of services the City provides from time-to-time to other residents and properties within the City.
Such services shall be provided to the Property on a reasonable basis, at reasonable levels,

6.     Vested Rights and Reserved Legislative Powers

        6.1     Vested Rights. Subject to the provisions of the Agreement, Owner shall have the
right to develop and construct the Project in accordance with the phasing, uses, densities,
intensities, fees, obligations, and configuration of Project development approved by this
Agreement, subject to applicable ordinances and regulations of the City.

        6.2     Reserved Legislative Powers. Owner acknowledges that the City is restricted in its
authority to limit its police power by contract and that the limitations, reservations, and exceptions
set forth herein are intended to reserve to the City all of its police power that cannot be so limited.
Notwithstanding the retained power of the City to enact such legislation under the police powers,
such legislation shall only be applied to modify the existing land use and zoning regulations that
are applicable to the Project under the terms of this Agreement based upon policies, facts, and
circumstances meeting the compelling, countervailing public interest exception to the vested rights
doctrine in the State of Utah. Any such proposed legislative changes affecting the Project and the
terms and conditions of this Agreement applicable to the Project shall be of general application to
all development activity in the City; and, unless the City reasonably declares an emergency, Owner
shall be entitled to the required notice and an opportunity to be heard with respect to any such
proposed change and its applicability to the Project under the compelling, countervailing public
interest exception to the vested rights doctrine.




                                                  23
7.      Soil Cells     Owner agrees to install landscaping consistent with the specifications for
Soil Cells attached hereto as Exhibit O. Owner shall be responsible for installing Soil Cells in the
locations identified on the Landscape Plan and to the standards provided by the City.


8.      General Terms and Conditions

        8.1    Term of Agreement. Construction of Phase 1 of the Project is required to commence
within one (1) year of the date of execution of this Agreement. If construction fails to commence
as provided herein, or if Owner fails to comply with the terms herein following written notice to
Owner and a period of thirty (30) days to cure such failure (provided that if the failure is of a nature
that the cure will require more than 30 days to complete, then Owner shall have such additional
time as may reasonably be required to cure so long as Owner commences such cure within such
30 day period and thereafter diligently pursues such cure to completion), Owner agrees that its
Upzone to HT Overlay district as anticipated herein, as to the Lot (or Lots) comprising portions of
the Project with respect to which such failure relates, shall be void ab initio, its rights shall not vest
in HT Overlay district entitlements or herein, as otherwise provided above; provided that the HT
Overlay district and this Agreement shall remain in force and effect with respect such other Lot or
Lots comprising the Project.

        8.2     Agreement to Run With the Land. This Agreement shall be recorded against the
Property, as described in Exhibit A attached hereto, and shall be deemed to run with the land and
shall be binding on all successors and assigns of Owner in the ownership or development of any
portion of the Property.

        8.3    No Joint Venture, Partnership, or Third-Party Rights. This Agreement does not
create any joint venture, partnership, undertaking, or business arrangement between the parties
hereto, nor any rights or benefits to third parties.

       8.4     Severability. If any part or provision of this Agreement shall be determined to be
unconstitutional, invalid, or unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, then such a
decision shall not affect any other part or provision of this Agreement, except that specific
provision determined to be unconstitutional, invalid, or unenforceable. If any condition, covenant,
or other provision of this Agreement shall be deemed invalid due to its scope or breadth, such
provision shall be deemed valid to the extent of the scope or breadth permitted by law.

       8.6     Attorneys’ Fees. If this Agreement is breached, the party at fault agrees to pay the
reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs of enforcement of the non-breaching party.

        8.7     Force Majeure. Neither party hereto shall be liable for any delay or failure in the
keeping or performance of its obligations under this Agreement during the time and to the extent
that any such failure is due to unforeseeable causes beyond the control and without the fault of
negligence of the Party affected, including, without limitation, acts of God, acts of the United
States Government (except with respect to the imposition of government tariffs on any component
of the Project) or the State of Utah, fires, floods, strikes, embargoes or unusually adverse weather
conditions that the Parties mutually agree unreasonably inhibit Owner’s construction and

                                                   24
development of the Project. Upon the occurrence of any such cause, the Party affected thereby
shall promptly notify the other Party, in writing, and shall immediately resume performance under
this Agreement after such cause has ceased to unusually impair performance. During the existence
of such an event, each Party shall bear its own costs resulting therefrom. Each Party shall make
every reasonable effort to keep delay in performance as a result of such cause to a minimum.

        8.8    Further Assurances. Each Party hereto shall take all such further acts as shall be
reasonably necessary to carry out more effectively the intent and purposes of this Agreement and
the actions contemplated hereby.

        8.9     Term of this Agreement. The obligations of the Parties of under this Agreement
shall take effect as of the date of this Agreement, shall run with the land, shall bind all subsequent
Owners, and shall continue in full force and effect until all obligations hereunder have been fully
performed and all rights hereunder fully exercised. Unless the Parties mutually agree to extend
the term by written agreement, this Agreement shall not extend beyond a period of fifty (50) years
from its date of recordation in the office of the Salt Lake County Recorder. If the Property has not
been fully developed consistent with this Agreement prior to its termination, the undeveloped
Property may not be developed until one of the following occurs: (i) a new written agreement has
been negotiated and executed by the Parties or successors in interest, governing development of
the Property; or (ii) Owner or its successor in interest applies to the City for new zoning approval
that is wholly inconsistent with this Agreement and the City Council, in its sole legislative
discretion, approves either the requested or different zoning and specifically terminates this
Agreement.


9.     Notices

        All notices required to be given hereunder shall be in writing and shall be addressed as
follows or as either party may subsequently designate by written notice to the other. All notices
shall be delivered by electronic mail (e-mail), by certified or registered U.S. Mail, postage prepaid,
return receipt requested, by a recognized overnight delivery service which maintains delivery
records, or by hand delivery and shall be deemed effective: (i) if sent by e-mail, when sent,
provided the sender does not receive a message of non-delivery, and provided that the e-mail is
with an automatic response of receipt or the receiver acknowledges receipt of the e-mail or the
sender sends, concurrently with the e-mail a conforming copy thereof deposited for delivery by
the U.S. Postal Service; (ii) five (5) calendar days after deposit with the U.S. Postal Service; (iii)
one (1) calendar day after deposit with a recognized overnight delivery service; or (iv) upon receipt
by hand delivery:

               To Owner:

               SSL Market Center QOZB, LLC
               386 W. 500 S. Suite 100
               Salt Lake City, UT 84101
               ATTN: Jonathan Hardy
               E-mail: jhardy@blaser-ventures.com
                                                 25
             To South Salt Lake:

             City of South Salt Lake
             220 E. Morris Avenue #200
             South Salt Lake, UT 84115
             ATTN: City Attorney

             E-mail: jcollins@sslc.gov


12.   List of Exhibits

      Exhibit A – Legal Description

      Exhibit B – Tax Increment Participation Agreement

      Exhibit C – Project Site Plan

      Exhibit D – Project Landscaping Plan

      Exhibit E – Intentionally Omitted

      Exhibit F – Building 1 Floor Plans

      Exhibit G – Intentionally Omitted

      Exhibit H – Building 2 Floor Plans

      Exhibit I – Intentionally Omitted

      Exhibit J – Building 3 Floor Plans

      Exhibit K – Intentionally Omitted

      Exhibit L – Building 4 Floor Plans

      Exhibit M – EGC Standards

      Exhibit N – Intentionally Omitted

      Exhibit O —Soil Cell Standards

      Exhibit P— Intentionally Omitted

      Exhibit Q— Intentionally Omitted
                                             26
Exhibit R — Assignee’s Commitment to Abide by Development Agreement and City
             Consent to Transfer City Consent to Transfer




                The rest of this page is left intentionally blank.




                                       27
       IN WITNESS THEREOF, this Agreement has been executed by Owner by persons duly
authorized to execute the same and by the City of South Salt Lake, acting by and through its City
Council as of the      day of               , 2025.

                                                    CITY OF SOUTH SALT LAKE

                                                    By:
                                                          Mayor
ATTEST:

By:
      City Recorder


APPROVED AS TO FORM:


City Attorney


                                                             OWNER:

                                                    SSL MARKET CENTER QOZB, LLC, a
                                                    Delaware limited liability company

                                                    By:

                                                    Name:

                                                    Title:

STATE OF UTAH       )
                     ss.
COUNTY OF SALT LAKE )

        On this ____ day of __________________, 2025, personally appeared before me
_____________________, whose identity is personally known to me/proved to me on the basis
of satisfactory evidence and who by me duly sworn/affirmed, did say that he is a manager of SSL
Market Center QOZB, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company.



                                                    Notary Public

                                                    Residing at:


                                               28
                                          EXHIBIT A

                       LEGAL DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPERTY

Beginning at a point which lies South 89°52'00'' West 33.00 feet from the Northeast corner of Lot
12, Block 40, Ten Acre Plat "A", Big Field Survey as recorded in the Salt Lake County, Utah
Recorder's office, (said point of beginning also lies on the West line of State Street) and running
thence South 00°05'00" West 419.92 feet along said West line to the North line of Haven Lane
(also known as Haven Avenue in some instruments of record); thence South 89°52'00" West 511.50
feet along said North line; thence North 00°03'34" East 164.40 feet; thence North 89°52'00" East
17.09 feet; thence North 00°03'34" East 99.75 feet, more or less; thence South 89°52'00" West
193.00 feet to the East line of Main Street; thence North 00°03'06" East 155.75 feet along said
East line, more or less, to the South line of the Denver and Rio Grande Western Railroad; thence
North 89°52'00" East 687.61 feet to the point of beginning.
              EXHIBIT B

TAX INCREMENT PARTICIPATION AGREEMENT

              See attached.
                    TAX INCREMENT PARTICIPATION AGREEMENT

      This PARTICIPATION AGREEMENT (this “Agreement) is entered into as of 29th day
of May, 2024, between SSL MARKET CENTER QOZB, LLC, a Delaware limited liability
company (the “Company”) and the REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY OF SOUTH SALT LAKE
CITY, a community reinvestment agency and political subdivision of the State of Utah (the
“Agency”):

                                             RECITALS:

        A.     The Agency owns certain real property within South Salt Lake City (the “City”)
located at 2280 South State Street, that is more particularly described in the attached Exhibit A
(as described in Exhibit A, the “Property”).

       B.      The Agency and BCG Acquisitions LLC (predecessor in interest to the Company)
entered into a Purchase and Sale Agreement and Escrow Instructions dated April 25, 2024 (the
“PSA” as assigned to the Company as of the date hereof), providing for the sale of the Property to
the Company.

        C.     The PSA contemplated that the Parties would execute this Agreement, and this
Agreement becomes enforceable and effective immediately upon, and only upon, the delivery of
a deed to the Company conveying the Property under the PSA (the “Closing”).

        D.     The Property is located within the boundaries of an urban renewal project area
created by the Agency and known as the Market Station Urban Renewal Project Area (the “Project
Area”), which expires December 31, 2037.

         E.     The Company plans to develop, construct, own and operate a mixed-use transit-
oriented project that includes the following required elements (collectively, the “Mixed-Use
Project”): surface parking and/or streetside parking on the Property containing at least 470 parking
stalls (the “Parking Stalls”), of which at least 400 of such stalls are required to be located in an off-
street parking structure located on the Property (the “Structured Parking Stalls”); approximately
475 residential units; and at least 20,000 square feet of commercial floor area, of which at least
2,500 square feet of commercial/retail floor area is required to be an amenity space located on the
rooftop of a commercial building that is at least four (4) stories in height , and community amenities
and/or public gathering spaces that are approved by the Agency, which Mixed-Use Project will be
of great benefit to the Project Area and to the City and its residents.

       F.       The Company has presented to the Agency and its consultants sufficient
information, including development plans and alternatives, financial pro forma and cash flow
statements, and other information, showing justification for the Agency’s participation in the
construction of (i) the Structured Parking Stalls to serve the Mixed-Use Project and the
surrounding downtown area, which has an estimated cost after completion of in excess of
approximately $19,000,000, (ii) a minimum of 400 Income Targeted Housing units (as defined
below), (iii) a rooftop commercial and/or retail space and patio, (iv) rooftop commercial space,
and other site infrastructure, and (v) other extraordinary public infrastructure improvements

                                                   1
31482436_v21
serving or within the Mixed-Use Project.

        G.      The Agency has adopted the Market Station Urban Renewal Project Area Plan (the
“Plan”), and the Agency has negotiated with the Taxing Entity Committee (the “TEC”) within the
Project Area, by resolution (the “TEC Resolution”), which permits the Agency to collect a portion
of the tax increment from the Project Area as permitted under Title 17C of the Utah Code Ann.

       H.     The City created the Downtown South Salt Lake Housing and Transit Reinvestment
Zone (the “HTRZ”) which was approved by the Downtown South Salt Lake HTRZ Committee on
December 20, 2023, and the, to-be-adopted, interlocal agreement between the City and Agency,
which permits the Agency to receive a portion of the tax increment from the HTRZ as permitted
under Title 63N of the Utah Code Ann.

       I.      Due to its location within the Plan’s “Project Area” (as defined in the Plan), the
Property generates tax increment revenues that are directed to the Agency under the Plan and as
provided in the TEC Resolution.

        J.      Due to its location adjacent to the HTRZ, and as allowed by the approved HTRZ
application and HTRZ law, the Agency is allowed to expend HTRZ funds on projects within, or
for the direct benefit of, the HTRZ, including, without limitation, parking structures.

       K.     The Agency and the Company desire to enter into this Agreement to set forth the
terms and conditions pursuant to which the Agency will provide certain incentives in support of
the development and operation of the Mixed-Use Project.

                                        AGREEMENT:

NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants, conditions, and considerations as
more fully set forth below, the parties hereby agree as follows:

1.     Tax Increment Definition.

       a. Definition. This Agreement refers to “tax increment” which is a term defined by Utah
          Code Ann. § 17C-1-102(60). The term tax increment has the same meaning as defined
          by that statute (as amended, replaced or superseded from time to time). The parties
          acknowledge that tax increment generally refers to the additional ad valorem tax
          revenues generated by the increase in value of taxable real and personal property from
          the calendar year ending on December 31st.

       b. Agency’s Share. Under the Plan as originally adopted, the Agency is entitled to collect
          75% of the tax increment from the Project Area until and including the tax year 2037,
          as expressly provided under the TEC Resolution. Amounts received and retained by the
          Agency are available to be used to pay for or reimburse for the construction of
          infrastructure and other Project Area costs within or benefitting the Project Area,
          including reimbursement of the Company for infrastructure, community amenities,
          affordable housing, and Structured Parking within the Project Area by the Company or
          its affiliates or successors.
                                                2
31482436_v21
       c. Net Agency’s Share. The Agency is required to allocate 20% of the tax increment to
          affordable housing. Additionally, the Agency has budgeted 5% of retained tax increment
          for administration costs each year. The term “Net Agency’s Share” refers to the tax
          increment actually received and retained by the Agency each year after allocating 20%
          for affordable housing, and also after setting aside the 5% administration costs.

2.     Company Commitments. As a condition to all obligations of the Agency under this
Agreement, the Company agrees to develop, own and operate (for a reasonable period of time
currently estimated to be at least ten (10) years), through one or more affiliated entities which are
owned, managed, and/or under common control with the Company, the Mixed-Use Project, as
described and defined in this Agreement, and to do each of the following:

       a. Prior to receiving any payments, the Company agrees to submit documentation outlining
          the accrued Structured Parking Stalls and other public improvements costs associated
          with the need for Agency funds;

       b. The Company shall include a community amenity and/or public gathering space within
          the Mixed-Use Project, the location, design and program of which shall be acceptable
          to the Agency; provided that the Agency acknowledges that the preliminary site plan
          previously presented by the Company to the Agency satisfies the requirement of this
          Section 2(b);

       c. The Company shall include at least 20,000 square feet of retail space, and such
          commercial space will have an average aggregate rental rate during the initial five (5)
          years following completion of the same of no more than eighty percent (80%) of the fair
          market rental rate, which for purposes of this Agreement means the average retail rental
          rate charged for comparable retail space within the Salt Lake metropolitan area.

       d. The Company shall provide a minimum of 470 total Parking Stalls within the Mixed-
          Use Project and shall construct at least 200 Structured Parking Stalls that will be
          available for use by the general public during normal retail and business hours (8:00
          a.m. to 10:00 p.m., Monday through Sunday), with (i) two (2) hours of free parking, and
          thereafter (ii) parking charges at market-based rates that are comparable to the average
          parking rate charged by comparable parking structures within the Salt Lake metropolitan
          area, taking into consideration parking rate concessions and discounts offered by such
          comparable facilities.

       e. The Company agrees to commence construction of the above-ground improvements for
          the Structured Parking Stalls on or before the date that is six (6) months following the
          date that a building permit is issued by the City for such Structured Parking Stalls (the
          “Structured Parking Construction Commencement Date”). The Company agrees to work
          in good faith, using diligent and commercially reasonable efforts, to promptly finalize
          all plans, and to thereupon submit application for and otherwise pursue approval from
          the City with respect to, a building permit for the Structured Parking Stalls.
          Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, the Structured Parking Construction

                                                 3
31482436_v21
          Commencement Date shall be extended day-for-day for each day of any “Force Majeure
          Event” or “City Delay.” For purposes of this Agreement:

                        i.     “Force Majeure Event” means any unforeseeable event or cause
           beyond the reasonable control of the Company and not due to the fault or negligence
           of the Company, including, but not restricted to, acts of God, acts of any governmental
           authority, acts of a public enemy, adverse weather, adverse site conditions caused by
           weather, floods, earthquakes, epidemics, quarantine restrictions, freight embargoes,
           strikes or labor disputes; and

                      ii.     “City Delay” means any avoidable and unreasonable delays beyond
           any time frames provided under applicable City ordinances or state law (a) by the
           Agency, the City or other governmental authority in approving any land use
           entitlements (including but not limited to zoning, master plan, and/or other similar
           approvals), approving the waiver of certain City fees relating to the Mixed-Use Project,
           and reviewing or approving the construction plans for the Mixed-Use Project or any
           portion thereof, or (b) by the Agency in establishing and issuing any bonds to be
           secured by the tax increment which is the subject of this Agreement and which may be
           requested by the Company, which bonds shall be upon terms reasonably acceptable to
           the Company and the Agency.

       f. The Company shall provide Income Targeted Housing units consistent with Section 5(a)
          below. Additionally, the Mixed-Use Project shall have a housing unit mix comprising
          of at least thirty percent (30%) of the total number of housing units with two (2)
          bedrooms or more.

3.     Post-Performance Tax Incentives.

       a. Generally. The Company is solely responsible for all costs of development,
          construction, maintenance, ownership, repair, etc., of the Mixed-Use Project (including,
          without limitation, the Structured Parking Stalls). However, subject to the performance
          of the Company Commitments by the Company first, the Agency will participate with
          the Company in financing the construction of the Structured Parking Stalls and other
          allowable project improvement costs solely by paying a maximum amount of 75% of
          the Agency’s Share of tax increment through December 31, 2037, which is currently
          estimated to be $9,350,000 (the “Maximum Reimbursement Amount”) to the Company
          as reimbursement for expenses actually incurred by the Company in the construction of
          the Structured Parking Stalls and other project improvements, as follows: The Agency
          will pay to the Company annually, beginning with a payment for the first year in 2025,
          and ending with a final payment for the final year of the remaining tax increment
          collection period for the Project Area, which is estimated to be December 31, 2037
          (each an “Annual Tax Increment Payment”), an amount equal to 75% of the tax
          increment actually received by the Agency from the Salt Lake County Treasurer
          pursuant to the Plan and Utah Code Ann. § 17C-1-4, and arising from the Mixed-Use
          Project. The Agency will continue making Annual Tax Increment Payments until the
          Agency no longer has the right to receive tax increment from the Project Area because

                                                4
31482436_v21
          the final year of the tax increment collection period for the Project Area has passed.
          Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, the Agency has no
          obligation to pay any more than the Maximum Reimbursement Amount; accordingly, if
          and when the Maximum Reimbursement Amount has been paid, the Agency will have
          no further payment obligations of any kind to the Company; both parties acknowledge
          the total amount paid to the Company is contingent on, among other things, the amount
          of tax increment actually received by the Agency each year from the Property and the
          Mixed-Use Project.

       b. Affordable Housing. In addition to the Maximum Reimbursement Amount payable
          under Section 3(a) of this Agreement, the Agency will also pay to the Company certain
          additional tax increment funds in order to preserve certain units within the Mixed-Use
          Project as “Income Targeted Housing” units. Specifically, the Agency will pay tax
          increment funds in the cumulative amount of 20% of the Agency’s Share of tax
          increment through 2037 which is currently estimated to be $2,500,000 (the “Maximum
          Housing Amount”), as follows: The Agency will pay to the Company annually,
          beginning with a payment for the first year in 2025, and ending with a final payment for
          the final year of the remaining tax increment collection period for the Project Area,
          which is estimated to be December 31, 2037 (each an “Annual Housing Payment”). The
          Agency will continue making Annual Housing Payments until the first to occur of either
          (i) the Agency no longer has the right to receive tax increment from the Project Area
          because the final year of the tax increment collection period for the Project Area has
          passed, or (ii) a “Housing Cutoff Event” (defined below) has occurred. Notwithstanding
          anything in this Agreement to the contrary, except for payments under Section 3(a), 3(c),
          and 3(d), the Agency has no obligation to pay any more than the Maximum Housing
          Amount; accordingly, when the Maximum Housing Amount has been paid, the Agency
          will have no further obligations of any kind to the Company under this Section 3(b),
          both parties acknowledge the total amount paid to the Company is contingent on, among
          other things, the amount of tax increment actually received by the Agency each year
          from the Property and the Mixed-Use Project.

       c. HTRZ Incentive. In addition to the funding sources generated within the Project Area,
          the Agency also committed to utilizing up to $3,150,000 of the initial HTRZ funds
          generated and actually received by the Agency to assist with the construction of the
          Structured Parking Stalls (the “HTRZ Payment”). The parties acknowledge that the
          HTRZ is not generating tax increment revenues as of the Effective Date of this
          Agreement. HTRZ tax increment payments to Company are expressly contingent upon
          the generation of tax increment within the HTRZ boundaries and the Agency’s receipt
          of such tax increment. It is currently estimated that the HTRZ will begin generating tax
          increment in 2026. The Agency and the Company shall work in good faith to agree to
          an addendum to this Agreement to address the payment of the HTRZ Payment after the
          first year the Agency receives HTRZ tax increment revenues. The Agency Executive
          Director is hereby authorized and may, in their sole discretion, direct one or more
          additional payments of available Agency funds to the Company in an amount not to
          exceed $1,200,000 to supplement the HTRZ Payment to the extent the actual HTRZ
          Payment is less than the amount estimated in this Section or if the Agency Executive

                                                 5
31482436_v21
            Director has determined, in their sole discretion, that Mixed-Use Project has, or is likely
            to, provide additional or enhanced public benefits or otherwise exceed the standards or
            requirements set forth in this Agreement.

       d. Pre-Vertical Construction Payments. Prior to the Commencement of Construction of
          the Mixed-Use Project, any amounts received by the Agency that are payable to
          Company as Payments in accordance with Sections 3(a) and 3(b) above shall be held in
          an interest-bearing account by the Agency subject to the provisions of this Section. Once
          the Commencement of Construction of the Mixed-Use Project has occurred and the
          construction of the Mixed-Use Project continues with reasonable diligence, the
          Payments, less any accrued interest, shall be paid to the Company in accordance with
          the terms of this Agreement. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this
          Agreement, Company shall not be entitled to receive any Payments under this
          Agreement unless and until the conditions set forth in this Section are satisfied.
          Company shall provide written notice to the Agency upon the Commencement of
          Construction informing Agency of the same and shall provide the Agency with the
          construction schedule, which shall include, at a minimum, a summary of each estimated
          construction milestone from Commencement of Construction through completion of the
          Mixed-Use Project. Company shall also provide construction progress reports to the
          Agency at least once each quarter documenting Company’s construction progress and
          achievement of milestones described in the construction schedule. If construction of the
          Mixed-Use Project is halted or interrupted for any reason for more than one hundred
          twenty (120) days, Company shall promptly provide written notice of such event to the
          Agency and Agency may, in Agency’s sole discretion, and except in the event the halt
          or interruption is due to a Force Majeure Event or a City Delay, withhold future
          Payments until construction of the Mixed-Use Project recommences and continues with
          reasonable diligence and in accordance with all other provisions and terms of this
          Agreement. Additionally, Company shall provide such additional information or
          documentation as the Agency may reasonably request from time to time to ensure
          Company’s construction progress. For purposes of this Agreement “Commencement of
          Construction” shall mean Company’s commencement of construction of the above-
          ground improvements comprising the Mixed-Use Project or relevant portion thereof.

       e.   Limitation. Subject to the terms of this Agreement, the Agency will make Annual Tax
            Increment Payments until the first to occur of either of the following: (i) the Agency
            has paid to the Company a total of $15,000,000 in incentives (inclusive of the Annual
            Tax Increment Payments, the Annual Housing Payments, and the HTRZ Payments)
            pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, or (ii) the Agency no longer has the right to
            receive tax increment from the Project Area because the final year of the tax increment
            collection period for the Project Area has passed. Notwithstanding anything in this
            Agreement to the contrary, if the Company does not satisfy the Company Commitments
            as set forth in Section 2 hereof, then the Agency will have no obligation to pay any
            payments described in this Sections 3(a) and 3(b) (the “Annual Post-Performance Tax
            Incentive Payments”) to the Company, and instead, the Agency will then be entitled to
            retain all tax increment generated from the Mixed-Use Project for other legal and
            authorized purposes of the Agency; provided however, that in the event the Company

                                                   6
31482436_v21
            Commitments are not satisfied either due to the “State Contingency” not being
            achieved, or the total number of Structured Parking Stalls not being constructed so long
            as such number of Structured Parking Stalls actually constructed are within the
            “Permitted Parking Variance,” then the Annual Tax Increment Payments shall be paid,
            but shall be adjusted proportionately to reflect the reduction in the Company
            Commitments resulting from the State Contingency or Permitted Parking Variance.
            For purposes of this Agreement:

                         i.     “State Contingency” means the approval required from the State of
            Utah (including its agencies, the Utah Department of Transportation and/or the Utah
            Transit Authority), with respect to the realignment of the State infrastructure to
            facilitate the development of the Mixed-Use Project as contemplated; and

                        ii.     “Permitted Parking Variance” means a reduction of the Structured
            Parking Stalls identified in Section 2(c) above by no more than (A) forty- seven (47)
            stalls or (B) the difference between the number of Structured Parking Stalls proposed
            for the Mixed-Use Project and the minimum number of off-street parking spaces
            required under the City’s ordinances.

       f.   Taxes – Condition Precedent. Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the
            contrary, all obligations of the Agency to pay any tax increment to the Company are
            conditional on the Company paying all taxes assessed on or generated from the
            Property, including but not necessarily limited to real property, personal property, ad
            valorem, and sales taxes, to the appropriate taxing authorities. The Company reserves
            all, and does not waive or relinquish any, rights available at law or in equity to appeal
            or contest any taxes or assessments on the Property.

       g.   No Existing Encumbrance and No Further Encumbrance. The Agency has not
            encumbered or pledged tax increment from the Mixed-Use Project as of the Effective
            Date. The Agency agrees that the Agency shall not, without the prior written consent
            of the Company, which may be withheld in the Company’s sole discretion, issue any
            bonds and other indebtedness that are secured by tax increment from the Mixed-Use
            Project until such time as Company has been reimbursed the Maximum Post-
            Performance Tax Incentive Payment Amounts as provided in this Agreement, unless
            such obligations are subordinate to the rights of Company under this Agreement or
            except as otherwise provided in this Agreement.

       h.   Bond Option. Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, the parties
            acknowledge and agree that the Agency intends to and shall pursue the issuance of
            public infrastructure bonds in lieu of the Annual Tax Increment Payments, the Annual
            Housing Payments, and the HTRZ Payments, which bonds shall be secured by the tax
            increment which is the subject of this Agreement (the “Public Infrastructure Bonds”),
            and to provide the proceeds of the Public Infrastructure Bonds to the Company, less
            the reasonable transactional costs of the bonds, during the course of construction of the
            Mixed-Use Project. As soon as reasonably practicable following the Effective Date,
            the Agency shall pursue and close on such bond financing in a diligent and

                                                  7
31482436_v21
           commercially reasonable manner. Prior to the disbursement of any proceeds from the
           Public Infrastructure Bond, the parties shall enter into an addendum to this Agreement
           to address the e manner in which the bond proceeds will be released to the Company,
           among other matters agreed to by the parties relating thereto. The Agency shall retain
           sole discretion over all terms and conditions pertaining to the issuance of the Public
           Infrastructure Bonds. The Company (a) acknowledges that the proceeds of the Public
           Infrastructure Bonds will, by necessity, be less than the currently estimated amounts
           totaling the Annual Tax Increment Payments, the Annual Housing Payments, and the
           HTRZ Payments, and (b) agrees that, upon the issuance of any Public Infrastructure
           Bonds and the release of such proceeds to the Company pursuant to the addendum to
           this Agreement, the Agency shall have no further obligation to make any of the annual
           payments under Sections 2(a) through (c) of this Agreement even if such bond proceeds
           are less than the estimated annual payment amounts contemplated under this
           Agreement.

4.      Timing of Annual Incentive Payments. Subject to Sections 2 and 3 above, the Agency
will make the first Annual Tax Increment Payment within thirty days after the Agency receives
from the Salt Lake County Treasurer the final tax increment payment for the calendar year in which
the Mixed-Use Project (or any completed portion thereof) is first assessed and appears on the tax
rolls for Salt Lake County, and, subject to Section 3 above, the Agency will continue making the
Annual Post Performance Tax Incentive Payments each successive year within the same thirty-
day period for so long as the Agency is entitled to collect tax increment from the Project Area (as
may be extended, if at all, from time to time). For informational purposes, the Agency typically
receives tax increment payments from the Salt Lake County Treasurer in March or April (for the
preceding tax year), which means the Agency will likely pay the first Annual Tax Increment
Payment to the Company around April or May of the year following the calendar year during
which the Company obtains an initial certificate of occupancy for the Mixed-Use Project (or first
completed portion thereof), and then the successive payments in April or May of each succeeding
year.

5.     Housing Cutoff Event.

       a. As a condition to the obligation of the Agency to make any Annual Housing Payments
          to the Company, the Company agrees to as follows. The Company will cause at least
          400 housing units within the Mixed-Use Project to be available for lease (or subject to
          lease) at all times, as “80% AMI Housing” or “40% AMI Housing” through and
          including the calendar year 2037, with an overall average unit mix of at least “60%
          AMI Housing.” Such units are referred to collectively in this Agreement as “Income
          Targeted Housing.”

       b. The term “80% AMI Housing” means both of the following are true with respect to the
          unit: (i) the tenant of the unit has an annual income that is no more than 80% of the
          median annual income for Salt Lake County, based on household size, according to
          income statistics or guidelines published by the United States Housing and Urban
          Development, as measured at the time such tenant enters into a lease for an Income
          Targeted Housing unit and (ii) the monthly rent for tenant does not exceed 30% of the

                                                 8
31482436_v21
           tenant’s gross monthly income, as such is measured at the time such tenant enters into
           a lease for an Income Targeted Housing unit. The term “60% AMI Housing” means
           both of the following are true with respect to the unit: (i) the tenant of the unit has an
           annual income that is no more than 60% of the median annual income for Salt Lake
           County, based on household size, according to income statistics or guidelines published
           by the United States Housing and Urban Development, as measured at the time such
           tenant enters into a lease for an Income Targeted Housing unit and (ii) the monthly rent
           for tenant does not exceed 30% of the tenant’s gross monthly income, as such is
           measured at the time such tenant enters into a lease for an Income Targeted Housing
           unit. The term “40% AMI Housing” means both of the following are true with respect
           to the unit: (i) the tenant of the unit has an annual income that is no more than 40% of
           the median annual income for Salt Lake County, based on household size, according to
           income statistics or guidelines published by the United States Housing and Urban
           Development, as measured at the time such tenant enters into a lease for an Income
           Targeted Housing unit and (ii) the monthly rent for tenant does not exceed 30% of the
           tenant’s gross monthly income, as such is measured at the time such tenant enters into
           a lease for an Income Targeted Housing unit. The term “Income Targeted Housing”
           means, collectively, 80% AMI Housing and 40% AMI Housing. Company shall obtain
           and preserve all records relating to Income Targeted Housing units in the Mixed-Use
           Project, and the Agency may, not more than once every twelve months, request copies
           of those records to verify the Company’s compliance with the requirements of this
           Agreement. Upon proper request by the Agency, the Company shall provide copies of
           all Company records reasonably requested by the Agency or reasonably necessary for
           the Agency to determine compliance with this paragraph and in accordance with the
           compliance reporting requirements adopted by the Utah Housing Corporation from
           time to time (the “Housing Compliance Requirements”). Notwithstanding anything to
           the contrary herein, if the Company utilizes Low Income Housing Tax Credit
           (“LIHTC”) financing through the Utah Housing Corporation as an additional funding
           source for the Income Targeted Housing, the Company’s reporting obligations and
           compliance with the requirements of the Utah Housing Corporation (or its successor as
           the designated “Housing Credit Agency”) for the LIHTC program shall satisfy the
           Company’s reporting and compliance obligations under this Agreement so long as the
           Income Targeted Housing unit mix and other requirements of this Agreement are met
           and the Agency timely receives copies of all reports and other filings made to the Utah
           Housing Corporation (or any successor Housing Credit Agency) demonstrating
           compliance with the LIHTC program.

       c. If at any time the Company fails to comply with the requirements to maintain at least
          400 Income Targeted Housing units leased or available for lease through and including
          calendar year 2038 in accordance with the requirements of Sections 5(a) and (b) above,
          then a “Housing Cutoff Event” will be deemed to have occurred, and the Company will
          forfeit the right to collect any future Annual Housing Payment, but may retain
          payments for such periods that the Company maintained such units.

       d. However, notwithstanding the foregoing, a “Housing Cutoff Event” will not be deemed
          to have occurred unless and until the Agency has notified the Company in writing that

                                                 9
31482436_v21
           the Agency believes a Housing Cutoff Event has occurred and the Company has been
           given at least 45 calendar days to provide a written response to the Agency explaining
           why the Company believes a Housing Cutoff Event has not occurred. The Agency must
           review the evidence provided by the Company and then make a final determination
           which final determination must be conveyed by the Agency to the Company in writing.
           If the Company continues to disagree then the Company may file a declaratory
           judgment lawsuit within 90 calendar days after receiving the final written decision of
           the Agency, and if the Company fails to timely do so, then the matter will be final and
           not subject to any further judicial review or action.

       e. The Company will have no obligation pursuant to this Agreement to maintain any
          Income Targeted Housing units in the Mixed-Use Project on or after January 1, 2039,
          or after a Housing Cutoff Event has occurred.

6.     Agency Authority. The Company acknowledges that the Agency is a political subdivision
of the State of Utah operating and existing under Title 17C of the Utah Code Ann., separate and
distinct from South Salt Lake City, for the purpose of, among other things, promoting the urban
renewal, economic development, community development & community reinvestment in the City.
The Company acknowledges that South Salt Lake City is not a party to this Agreement and South
Salt Lake City will not have any duties, liabilities or obligations under this Agreement. The
Company understands that the Agency has no independent taxing power, and therefore the
Agency’s sole source of revenue is property and sales tax increment financing as provided under
Utah law. If Utah law is amended or superseded by new law so as to reduce or eliminate the amount
of tax increment revenue to be paid to the Agency, the Agency’s obligation to pay Annual Tax
Increment Payments to the Company shall be accordingly reduced or eliminated. Similarly, if a
court of competent jurisdiction declares that the Agency cannot receive tax increment revenues or
make payments to the Company from tax increment revenues as provided in this Agreement, or
takes any other action which eliminates or reduces the amount of tax increment revenues paid to
the Agency, the Agency’s obligation to make Annual Tax Increment Payments to the Company
shall be accordingly reduced or eliminated.

7.      Agreement Term/Breach/Termination. This Agreement will automatically terminate
and expire upon payment of the final Post-Performance Tax Incentive Payment as described in
Section 3 above, or as provided in Section 2 relating to performance of the Company
Commitments. This Agreement may also be terminated earlier as follows: Upon the material
breach of this Agreement by either party, the non-breaching party may provide notice to the
breaching party. The breaching party shall have 30 days to cure the breach, and if the breach is not
timely cured, the non-breaching party may then terminate this Agreement by providing final notice
to the breaching party. The Agency may terminate this Agreement upon written notice to Company
if Company has not achieved the Commencement of Construction of the Structured Parking Stalls
by the Structured Parking Construction Commencement Date (as such Structured Parking
Construction Commencement Date may be extended due to a Force Majeure Event or a City
Delay).

8.      Successors and Assigns. This Agreement shall be binding upon the parties and their
respective successors and assigns. Neither party may assign its rights or obligations under this

                                                 10
31482436_v21
Agreement without the advance written consent of the other party.

9.     Amendments. Except as otherwise provided herein, this Agreement may be modified or
amended by, and only by, a written instrument duly authorized and executed by the Company and
the Agency.

10.     Governing Law and Interpretation. This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of
the State of Utah, and any action pertaining hereto shall be brought in the applicable state or federal
court having jurisdiction in Salt Lake County, Utah.

11.    Integrated Agreement. The above recitals, and all attached exhibits and schedules, are
incorporated and made an integral part of this Agreement. This Agreement constitutes the entire
agreement of the parties with respect to the subject matter addressed. There are no other contracts
or agreements, written or verbal, between the parties relating in any way to the subject matter of
this Agreement. No party is relying on any verbal or written statements of the other than those
expressly set forth in this Agreement.

12.    Further Assurances. The parties shall cooperate, take such additional actions, sign such
additional documentation, and provide such additional information as reasonably necessary to
accomplish the objectives set forth in this Agreement.

13.     Indemnification. The Company shall indemnify, defend (with counsel of the indemnitee’s
choosing), and hold the Agency and South Salt Lake City (including their respective officers,
directors, agents, employees, contractors, and consultants) harmless from and against all liability,
loss, damage, costs or expenses, including attorney’s fees and court costs, arising from or as a
result of death, injury, accident, loss or damage of any kind caused to any person or property
because of Company’s breach of this Agreement or any other act(s), error(s), or omission(s) of the
Company (including its officers, directors, agents, employees, contractors, and consultants) upon
the Property or in connection in any way with this Agreement, except in each case to the extent
arising out of the negligence, willful misconduct, illegal acts, bad faith or breach of this Agreement
by the Agency or South Salt Lake City (including their respective officers, directors, agents,
employees, contractors, and consultants).

14.    Third-Party Beneficiaries. Except for South Salt Lake City which is an intended third-
party beneficiary as described in the immediately preceding paragraph regarding indemnification,
this Agreement is intended solely for the benefit of the Agency and the Company and there are no
intended third-party beneficiaries.

15.     Nonliability of Officials or Employees. No director, officer, agent, employee, or
consultant of the Agency or the Company shall be personally liable to the other party hereto, or
any successor in interest, in the event of any default or breach by the Agency or Company or for
any amount which may become due to the Company or its successors or on any obligations under
the terms of this Agreement.

16.    No Legal Relationships. The parties disclaim any partnership, joint venture, fiduciary,
agency or employment status or relationship between them. No party has the authority to make

                                                  11
31482436_v21
any representation or warranty or incur any obligation or liability on behalf of the other party, nor
shall they make any representation to any third party inconsistent with this paragraph.

                            [End of Terms – Signature Page Follows]




                                                 12
31482436_v21
                                           EXHIBIT A

                                    Description of the Property

That certain real property located in the City of South Salt Lake, Utah, more particularly described
as follows:

Beginning at a point which lies South 89°52'00'' West 33.00 feet from the Northeast corner of Lot
12, Block 40, Ten Acre Plat "A", Big Field Survey as recorded in the Salt Lake County, Utah
Recorder's office, (said point of beginning also lies on the West line of State Street) and running
thence South 00°05'00" West 419.92 feet along said West line to the North line of Haven Lane
(also known as Haven Avenue in some instruments of record); thence South 89°52'00" West
511.50 feet along said North line; thence North 00°03'34" East 164.40 feet; thence North 89°52'00"
East 17.09 feet; thence North 00°03'34" East 99.75 feet, more or less; thence South 89°52'00" West
193.00 feet to the East line of Main Street; thence North 00°03'06" East 155.75 feet along said
East line, more or less, to the South line of the Denver and Rio Grande Western Railroad; thence
North 89°52'00" East 687.61 feet to the point of beginning.

TAX ID number 16-19-151-013




                                                 1
31482436_v21
EXHIBIT C

SITE PLAN

See attached.
      EXHIBIT D

PROJECT LANDSCAPE PLAN
                                                                                                               1                                                                                                                                                                               2                                                                        3                                                                                       4                                                                                  5                                                                                                                  6                              7




                                                                         A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               A




                                                                                                                                                                                       15' - 6"                  15' - 6"             16' - 0"      10' - 0"                                             7' - 0"   6' - 0"   13' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4' - 0"   12' - 9"   16' - 0"

                                                                                                                   6' - 0" 4' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4' - 0"
                                                                                                   4' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           13' - 6 3/4"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4' - 0
                                                                                                    10' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           "
                                                                                                                                                               15' - 6"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                "
                                                                         B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1' - 6         B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          6' - 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               6' - 6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           24' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                               15' - 6"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   6' - 0"



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           7' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   "                                20' -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           9' - 10"                                                                                                                                         3' - 7 1/2"                                                                                                                                     1' - 6                        "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        9' - 3 3/4"                                                                                                                                                                                                4' - 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1 "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          13' -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4' - 0" 8' - 0" 7' - 3 1/2" 8' - 0" 4' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    6' - 0" 4' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      6' - 3 1/2"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    25' - 6"          6' - 0"   25' - 6"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               16' - 0"      6' - 0"    30' - 0"   6' - 0"   31' - 3"
                                                                                                                                        8' - 0" 7' - 3 1/2"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4' - 0" 6' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4' - 7 1/4"
                                                                                                                                                                          9' - 0"   8' - 0"       9' - 0"          3' - 6"       20' - 11 1/2"   5' - 0"
                                                                                                                                        15' - 9 3/4"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MARKET CENTER
                                                                                                                                        8' - 0"




                                                                                             9' - 2"
                                                                         C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               C
                                                                                                                                        4' - 6" 11' - 9 3/4"
                                                                                                                                    3' - 6"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PROJECT NAME:



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      South Salt Lake, Utah
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         _
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        18' - 0"               9' - 0"



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4' - 0" 7' - 6" 4' - 0"   18' - 0"




                                                                         D                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         569 EAST 2ND AVENUE BUILDING B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84103




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       6' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                6' - 0" 4' - 5" 6' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                www.loci-slc.com
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  801.906.0399




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            6' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       22' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2' - 0"
                                                                         E                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       15' - 11"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4' - 1 3/4"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              5' - 6"            6' - 10"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       12' - 6"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PROJECT MANAGER Approver
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               8' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DRAWN BY Author

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CLIENT JOB NO. Project Number

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CREATION DATE 10/15/24

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              REVISED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 XX       DATE          DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                BY:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               11' - 6"




                                                                         F                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               F




                                                                                                                          6' - 0"                                                                      5' - 7"                                                                                                                                                                                                                         18' - 6 3/4"                        5' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          7' - 5"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DESIGN DEVELOPMENT
Autodesk Docs://2024-10106 State Street/StateStreet_Landscape_Loci.rvt




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PROGRESS SET

                                                                         G                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LAYOUT PLAN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      L- 101
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1" =
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        20'-0"
                                                                                 100 - LAYOUT PLAN - LEVEL 1 - EAST                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          NORTH   0   20   40   60   SCALE
                                                                             1
                                                                                 1" = 20'-0"
                                                                                                               1                                                                                                                                                                               2                                                                        3                                                                                       4                                                                                  5                                                                                                                  6                              7
                                                                                                  1                      2                                                    3                                         4   5   6   7




                                                                         A                                                                                                                                                              A




                                                                                                          4' - 0"




                                                                         B                                                                                                                                                              B




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            MARKET CENTER
                                                                                                                                                             35' - 4"                  25' - 6"               9' - 2"
                                                                         C                                                                                                                                                              C




                                                                                                                                                                                          4' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                   8' -


                                                                                                                                                                                                    8' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                    0"


                                                                                                                                                          4' -
                                                                                                                                                           0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PROJECT NAME:
                                                                                                       8' - 0" 4' - 6"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     South Salt Lake, Utah
                                                                                                                             10' - 0"   10' - 0"                        52' - 7 1/4"                8' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        _
                                                                         D                                                                                                                                                              D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        569 EAST 2ND AVENUE BUILDING B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84103
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               www.loci-slc.com
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 801.906.0399




                                                                         E                                                                                                                                                              E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PROJECT MANAGER Approver

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DRAWN BY Author

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CLIENT JOB NO. Project Number

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CREATION DATE 10/15/24

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             REVISED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                XX       DATE          DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               BY:




                                                                         F                                                                                                                                                              F




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DESIGN DEVELOPMENT
Autodesk Docs://2024-10106 State Street/StateStreet_Landscape_Loci.rvt




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PROGRESS SET

                                                                         G                                                                                                                                                              G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LAYOUT PLAN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     L- 102
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1" =
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       20'-0"
                                                                                 100 - LAYOUT PLAN - LEVEL 1 - WEST                                                                                                                         NORTH   0   20   40   60   SCALE
                                                                             1
                                                                                 1" = 20'-0"
                                                                                                  1                      2                                                    3                                         4   5   6   7
                                                                                                  1                   2   3             4   5   6   7




                                                                         A                                                                              A




                                                                         B                                                                              B




                                                                                                                                                                                                            MARKET CENTER
                                                                         C                                                                              C




                                                                                                                                                                                                 PROJECT NAME:
                                                                                                            6' - 0"           6' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     South Salt Lake, Utah
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        _
                                                                         D                                                                              D




                                                                                                                                                                                                        569 EAST 2ND AVENUE BUILDING B
                                                                                                                                                                                                           SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84103
                                                                                                                                                                                                               www.loci-slc.com
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 801.906.0399




                                                                         E                                                                              E




                                                                                                                                                                                                PROJECT MANAGER Approver

                                                                                                                                                                                                           DRAWN BY Author

                                                                                                                                                                                                     CLIENT JOB NO. Project Number

                                                                                                                                                                                                     CREATION DATE 10/15/24

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             REVISED
                                                                                                                                                                                                XX       DATE          DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               BY:




                                                                         F                                                                              F




                                                                                                                                                                                                DESIGN DEVELOPMENT
Autodesk Docs://2024-10106 State Street/StateStreet_Landscape_Loci.rvt




                                                                                                                                                                                                   PROGRESS SET

                                                                         G                                                                              G
                                                                                                                                                                                                     LAYOUT PLAN




                                                                                                                                                                                                     L- 103
                                                                                                                                                                                        1" =
                                                                                                                                                                                       20'-0"
                                                                                 100 - LAYOUT PLAN - LV 2                                                   NORTH   0   20   40   60   SCALE
                                                                             1
                                                                                 1" = 20'-0"
                                                                                                  1                   2   3             4   5   6   7
                                                                                                  1                                                               2                                                                                   3                                                                                                        4                                                                      5   6   7




                                                                         A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        A




                                                                         B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        B




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MARKET CENTER
                                                                         C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PROJECT NAME:



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               South Salt Lake, Utah
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  _
                                                                         D                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  569 EAST 2ND AVENUE BUILDING B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84103
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         www.loci-slc.com
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           801.906.0399
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  6' - 0"         12' - 0"    6' - 0"         17' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    12' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            6' - 0"




                                                                         E                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    33' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   10' - 0"   10' - 0"   10' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              16' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PROJECT MANAGER Approver
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    6' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                   8' - 0" 4' - 0"




                                                                                                      4' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     DRAWN BY Author
                                                                                                          13' - 2"   20' - 6"   9' - 0"    42' - 11"                         8' - 7"    11' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              6' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CLIENT JOB NO. Project Number

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CREATION DATE 10/15/24
                                                                                                                                                                                                   10' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                     31' - 5 1/2"              8' - 5 1/2"   13' - 3"   6' - 0"    13' - 3"   10' - 0"         6' - 0"
                                                                                                                                22' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       REVISED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DATE          DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5' - 10"
                                                                                                                                                                                                   6' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                      18' - 0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            XX                                                             BY:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        12' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                             10' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              44' - 9"
                                                                                                                                10' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                       22' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    22' - 4"
                                                                                                                                                                             15' - 2"
                                                                                                                                18' - 0"




                                                                         F                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        F
                                                                                                                                                                             13' - 2"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                6' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  11' - 0"   6' - 0"    10' - 0"     8' - 0"   10' - 0"   13' - 3 1/2"          6' - 0"       18' - 0"      6' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                             4' - 8"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             10' - 0"



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 26' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             10' - 0" 9' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DESIGN DEVELOPMENT
Autodesk Docs://2024-10106 State Street/StateStreet_Landscape_Loci.rvt




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PROGRESS SET

                                                                         G                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LAYOUT PLAN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               L- 104
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1" =
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 20'-0"
                                                                                 100 - LAYOUT PLAN - LV 6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             NORTH   0   20   40   60   SCALE
                                                                             1
                                                                                 1" = 20'-0"
                                                                                                  1                                                               2                                                                                   3                                                                                                        4                                                                      5   6   7
                                                                                                   1                            2              3                 4                   5                                   6                                        7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               KEYNOTES LEGEND

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    01 - PAVEMENT, RAMPS, AND CURBS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Keynote                                                        Detail         Quantity

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     01-01        L - Pedestal Paver - Concrete                                  11323 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     01-02        L - Pedestal Paver - Wood Tile                                  6514 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     01-03        L - Concrete                                                   61283 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     01-04        L - Concrete - Vehicular                                       19078 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     01-05        L - Concrete - Integral Color                                  11130 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     01-06        L - Playground Fall Surfacing                                    822 SF
                                                                         A                                                                                                                                                                                                    A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     01-08        L - Artificial Turf - Pedestal Paver                             683 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     01-09        L - Concrete - Gutter                                           2466 SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                 01-04                                                                              02 - JOINTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Keynote                                                        Detail
                                                                                                                                                                                                 01-09

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    03 - SITE STAIRS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      10-01                                         Keynote                                                        Detail           Count




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    04 - SITE WALLS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Keynote                                                        Detail          Length

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     04-01        Concrete Wall - 8"                                                  242'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     04-02        Concrete Wall - 18"                                                 324'
                                                                                                                       01-05
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     04-03        Spa Wall - 12"                                                       60'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     04-04        Raised Planter - 6" Finish Height                                 1,151'
                                                                                                                       04-02
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     04-05        Raised Planter - 30" Finish Height                                2,108'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     04-06        Concrete Wall - 6"                                                  126'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    05 - SITE FURNISHINGS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Keynote                                                        Detail           Count

                                                                                                                                                         10-01                                                                                                                       05-01        Picnic Table 30 ft                                                    1
                                                                                                                                                         10-02                                                                                                                       05-02        Bistro Table and 2 Chairs                                            13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     05-03        Bistro Table and 3 Chairs                                            37
                                                                         B                                                                               05-02                                                                                                                B      05-04        Adirondack Lounger                                                   21
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      01-03          05-05        Picnic Table 12 ft                                                    3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     05-06        Picnic Table 12 ft - Single Side                                      2
                                                                                           10-01                                                                                                                                                                      10-01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    06 - SITE RAILINGS AND FENCES
                                                                                           10-02                                                                                                                                                                                    Keynote                                                        Detail
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      05-03
                                                                                           05-03                                                                                                                                                                                     06-01        Fence - Dining - 36"                                              120 ft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     06-02        Fence - Dog Park - 48"                                            210 ft
                                                                                           05-01                                                         01-05                                                                                                                       06-03        Pool Fence - 72"                                                  270 ft
                                                                                                                                                                                         07-04
                                                                                                                                                         04-02                                                                                                                      07 - LIGHTING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Keynote                                                        Detail         Quantity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 06-01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 05-03                                                               07-01        Aura Ring                                                            12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     07-03        Light Pole - Single Head                                              3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     07-04        Light Pole - Dual Head                                                4


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    10 - MISCELLANEOUS ELEMENTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Keynote                                                        Detail         Quantity

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     10-01        Round Planter                                                        12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     10-02        Flat Rainbow 4' Tree Grate                                           18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     10-03        Tree Grate - SLC Standard                                            14
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     10-04        Parking Stop                                                         22
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     10-05        Play Structure - Orb                                                  1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     10-06        Earthscapes Log Pile 6.1 - No Net                                     1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     10-07        BBQ Grill                                                             2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     10-08        Trash Can                                                             1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     10-09        Round Bollard                                                       110
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     10-10        House Pergola                                                         1
                                                                                                                                       04-02                                                                                                                                         10-11        Side Pergola                                                          1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MARKET CENTER
                                                                         C                                                                                                                                                                                                    C
                                                                                                                                       04-06




                                                                                                                               01-06                                         01-03

                                                                                                                               10-05
                                                                                                                                                                             01-05




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PROJECT NAME:
                                                                                                                               07-03                                         10-01




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  South Salt Lake, Utah
                                                                                                                                                                             01-09




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            OVN
                                                                                                                                                                             01-04
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OVN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 07-04




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     _
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 01-04
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 10-02
                                                                                                                                                                     01-04                                                       10-04
                                                                         D                                                                                                                                                                                                    D
                                                                                                                                                                     10-02
                                                                                                                                                                     10-04                                                   OVN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    OVN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              01-09
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              10-02
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              10-04
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              10-09
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                OVN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    OVN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              01-05
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              04-01                                                                                                                                                  569 EAST 2ND AVENUE BUILDING B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84103
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              01-03
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            www.loci-slc.com
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              801.906.0399




                                                                         E                                                                                                                                                                                OVN                 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          OVN



                                                                                                                                                                             01-05
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OVN
                                                                                                                                                                             01-03


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PROJECT MANAGER Approver

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DRAWN BY Author

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CLIENT JOB NO. Project Number
                                                                                                                                                                             01-04                                                                        OVN
                                                                                                                                                                             10-02                                                                                                                                                                                                CREATION DATE 10/15/24




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              OVN
                                                                                                                                                                             10-04
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          REVISED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             XX       DATE          DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            BY:




                                                                                                                                                                                                         01-04
                                                                                                                                                                                                         01-09
                                                                                                                                                                                                         07-04


                                                                         F                                                                                                                                                                                                    F


                                                                                                                                                                       01-04
                                                                                                                                                                       01-09                                             OVN


                                                                                                                                                   OVN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             01-03




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DESIGN DEVELOPMENT
Autodesk Docs://2024-10106 State Street/StateStreet_Landscape_Loci.rvt




                                                                                                                                                         04-01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PROGRESS SET
                                                                                                               01-03
                                                                                                                                                         10-03
                                                                         G                                     10-03                                                                                                                                                          G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MATERIALS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PLAN


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  L- 201
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1" =
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 20'-0"
                                                                                 MATERIALS PLAN - LEVEL 1 - EAST                                                                                                                                                                  NORTH                      0                           20   40            60   SCALE
                                                                             1
                                                                                 1" = 20'-0"
                                                                                                   1                            2              3                 4                   5                                   6                                        7
                                                                                                 1                                 2                     3   4   5   6   7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                              KEYNOTES LEGEND

                                                                                                                                                                                   01 - PAVEMENT, RAMPS, AND CURBS
                                                                                                                                                                                   Keynote                                                        Detail         Quantity

                                                                                                                                                                                    01-01        L - Pedestal Paver - Concrete                                  11323 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                    01-02        L - Pedestal Paver - Wood Tile                                  6514 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                    01-03        L - Concrete                                                   61283 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                    01-04        L - Concrete - Vehicular                                       19078 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                    01-05        L - Concrete - Integral Color                                  11130 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                    01-06        L - Playground Fall Surfacing                                    822 SF
                                                                         A                                                                                                   A
                                                                                                                                                                                    01-08        L - Artificial Turf - Pedestal Paver                             683 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                    01-09        L - Concrete - Gutter                                           2466 SF




                                                                                                                                                                                   02 - JOINTS
                                                                                                                                                                                   Keynote                                                        Detail




                                                                                                                                                                                   03 - SITE STAIRS
                                                                                                                                                                                   Keynote                                                        Detail           Count




                                                                                                                                                                                   04 - SITE WALLS
                                                                                                                                                                                   Keynote                                                        Detail          Length

                                                                                                                                                                                    04-01        Concrete Wall - 8"                                                  242'
                                                                                                                                                                                    04-02        Concrete Wall - 18"                                                 324'
                                                                                                                                                                                    04-03        Spa Wall - 12"                                                       60'
                                                                                                                                                                                    04-04        Raised Planter - 6" Finish Height                                 1,151'
                                                                                                                                                                                    04-05        Raised Planter - 30" Finish Height                                2,108'
                                                                                                                                                                                    04-06        Concrete Wall - 6"                                                  126'

                                                                                                                                                                                   05 - SITE FURNISHINGS
                                                                                                                                                                                   Keynote                                                        Detail           Count

                                                                                                                                                                                    05-01        Picnic Table 30 ft                                                    1
                                                                                                                                                                                    05-02        Bistro Table and 2 Chairs                                            13
                                                                                                                                                                                    05-03        Bistro Table and 3 Chairs                                            37
                                                                         B                                                                                                   B      05-04        Adirondack Lounger                                                   21
                                                                                                                                                                                    05-05        Picnic Table 12 ft                                                    3
                                                                                                                                                                                    05-06        Picnic Table 12 ft - Single Side                                      2


                                                                                                                                                                                   06 - SITE RAILINGS AND FENCES
                                                                                                                                                                                   Keynote                                                        Detail
                                                                                                                       OVN




                                                                                                                                                                                    06-01        Fence - Dining - 36"                                              120 ft
                                                                                                                                                                                    06-02        Fence - Dog Park - 48"                                            210 ft
                                                                                                                                                                                    06-03        Pool Fence - 72"                                                  270 ft


                                                                                                                                                                                   07 - LIGHTING
                                                                                                                                                                                   Keynote                                                        Detail         Quantity
                                                                                                                                   OVN             OVN
                                                                                                                                                                                    07-01        Aura Ring                                                            12
                                                                                                                                                                                    07-03        Light Pole - Single Head                                              3
                                                                                                                                                                                    07-04        Light Pole - Dual Head                                                4


                                                                                                                                                                                   10 - MISCELLANEOUS ELEMENTS
                                                                                                                                                                                   Keynote                                                        Detail         Quantity

                                                                                                                                                                                    10-01        Round Planter                                                        12
                                                                                                                                                                                    10-02        Flat Rainbow 4' Tree Grate                                           18
                                                                                                                                                                                    10-03        Tree Grate - SLC Standard                                            14
                                                                                                                                                                                    10-04        Parking Stop                                                         22
                                                                                                                                                                                    10-05        Play Structure - Orb                                                  1
                                                                                                                                                                                    10-06        Earthscapes Log Pile 6.1 - No Net                                     1
                                                                                                                                                                                    10-07        BBQ Grill                                                             2
                                                                                                                                                                                    10-08        Trash Can                                                             1
                                                                                                                                                                                    10-09        Round Bollard                                                       110
                                                                                                                                                                                    10-10        House Pergola                                                         1
                                                                                                                                                                                    10-11        Side Pergola                                                          1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        MARKET CENTER
                                                                         C                                                                                                   C
                                                                                                                             OVN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PROJECT NAME:



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 South Salt Lake, Utah
                                                                                                                   07-03                 07-03   06-02
                                                                                                                   01-03                 05-03   10-06
                                                                                                                                         10-08   04-02




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    _
                                                                                                                                         01-03




                                                                         D                                                                                                   D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    569 EAST 2ND AVENUE BUILDING B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84103
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           www.loci-slc.com
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             801.906.0399




                                                                         E                                                                                                   E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PROJECT MANAGER Approver

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DRAWN BY Author

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CLIENT JOB NO. Project Number

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CREATION DATE 10/15/24

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         REVISED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            XX       DATE          DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           BY:




                                                                         F                                                                                                   F




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DESIGN DEVELOPMENT
Autodesk Docs://2024-10106 State Street/StateStreet_Landscape_Loci.rvt




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PROGRESS SET

                                                                         G                                                                                                   G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     MATERIALS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PLAN


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 L- 202
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1" =
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                20'-0"
                                                                                 MATERIALS PLAN - LEVEL 1 - WEST                                                                 NORTH                      0                           20   40            60   SCALE
                                                                             1
                                                                                 1" = 20'-0"
                                                                                                 1                                 2                     3   4   5   6   7
                                                                                                  1                      2                     3                   4         5         6   7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                KEYNOTES LEGEND

                                                                                                                                                                                                     01 - PAVEMENT, RAMPS, AND CURBS
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Keynote                                                        Detail         Quantity

                                                                                                                                                                                                      01-01        L - Pedestal Paver - Concrete                                  11323 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                      01-02        L - Pedestal Paver - Wood Tile                                  6514 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                      01-03        L - Concrete                                                   61283 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                      01-04        L - Concrete - Vehicular                                       19078 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                      01-05        L - Concrete - Integral Color                                  11130 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                      01-06        L - Playground Fall Surfacing                                    822 SF
                                                                         A                                                                                                                     A
                                                                                                                                                                                                      01-08        L - Artificial Turf - Pedestal Paver                             683 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                      01-09        L - Concrete - Gutter                                           2466 SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                     02 - JOINTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Keynote                                                        Detail




                                                                                                                                                                                                     03 - SITE STAIRS
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Keynote                                                        Detail           Count




                                                                                                                                                                                                     04 - SITE WALLS
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Keynote                                                        Detail          Length

                                                                                                                                                                                                      04-01        Concrete Wall - 8"                                                  242'
                                                                                                                                                                                                      04-02        Concrete Wall - 18"                                                 324'
                                                                                                                                                                                                      04-03        Spa Wall - 12"                                                       60'
                                                                                                                                                                                                      04-04        Raised Planter - 6" Finish Height                                 1,151'
                                                                                                                                                                                                      04-05        Raised Planter - 30" Finish Height                                2,108'
                                                                                                                                                                                                      04-06        Concrete Wall - 6"                                                  126'

                                                                                                                                                                                                     05 - SITE FURNISHINGS
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Keynote                                                        Detail           Count

                                                                                                                                                                                                      05-01        Picnic Table 30 ft                                                    1
                                                                                                                                                                                                      05-02        Bistro Table and 2 Chairs                                            13
                                                                                                                                                                                                      05-03        Bistro Table and 3 Chairs                                            37
                                                                         B                                                                                                                     B      05-04        Adirondack Lounger                                                   21
                                                                                                                                                                                                      05-05        Picnic Table 12 ft                                                    3
                                                                                                                                                                                                      05-06        Picnic Table 12 ft - Single Side                                      2


                                                                                                                                                                                                     06 - SITE RAILINGS AND FENCES
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Keynote                                                        Detail

                                                                                                                                                                                                      06-01        Fence - Dining - 36"                                              120 ft
                                                                                                                                                                                                      06-02        Fence - Dog Park - 48"                                            210 ft
                                                                                                                                                                                                      06-03        Pool Fence - 72"                                                  270 ft


                                                                                                                                                                                                     07 - LIGHTING
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Keynote                                                        Detail         Quantity

                                                                                                                                                                                                      07-01        Aura Ring                                                            12
                                                                                                                                                                                                      07-03        Light Pole - Single Head                                              3
                                                                                                                                                                                                      07-04        Light Pole - Dual Head                                                4


                                                                                                                                                                                                     10 - MISCELLANEOUS ELEMENTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Keynote                                                        Detail         Quantity

                                                                                                                                                                                                      10-01        Round Planter                                                        12
                                                                                                                                                                                                      10-02        Flat Rainbow 4' Tree Grate                                           18
                                                                                                                                                                                                      10-03        Tree Grate - SLC Standard                                            14
                                                                                                                                                                                                      10-04        Parking Stop                                                         22
                                                                                                                                                                                                      10-05        Play Structure - Orb                                                  1
                                                                                                                                                                                                      10-06        Earthscapes Log Pile 6.1 - No Net                                     1
                                                                                                                                                                                                      10-07        BBQ Grill                                                             2
                                                                                                                                                                                                      10-08        Trash Can                                                             1
                                                                                                                                                                                                      10-09        Round Bollard                                                       110
                                                                                                                                                                                                      10-10        House Pergola                                                         1
                                                                                                                                                                                                      10-11        Side Pergola                                                          1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MARKET CENTER
                                                                         C                                                                                                                     C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PROJECT NAME:
                                                                                                        OVN




                                                                                                                                                         05-02




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   South Salt Lake, Utah
                                                                                                                               04-02                     05-03
                                                                                                                               05-02                     01-08
                                                                                                               01-01           04-02
                                                                                                               01-02
                                                                                                                               05-04




                                                                                                                                                                       OVN
                                                                                                               04-02




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      _
                                                                         D                                                                                                                     D




                                                                                                                                                                       OVN
                                                                                                                   OVN




                                                                                                                                       01-01
                                                                                                                                       01-02
                                                                                                                                       04-02
                                                                                                                                       05-02


                                                                                                                                                           05-04


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      569 EAST 2ND AVENUE BUILDING B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84103
                                                                                                                         OVN                                                                                                                                                                                 www.loci-slc.com
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               801.906.0399




                                                                         E                                                                                                                     E




                                                                                                                                                                                 OVN


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PROJECT MANAGER Approver

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DRAWN BY Author

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CLIENT JOB NO. Project Number
                                                                                                                                                                       OVN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CREATION DATE 10/15/24

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           REVISED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              XX       DATE          DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BY:




                                                                         F                                                                                                                     F




                                                                                                                                                   OVN     OVN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DESIGN DEVELOPMENT
Autodesk Docs://2024-10106 State Street/StateStreet_Landscape_Loci.rvt




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PROGRESS SET

                                                                         G                                                                                                                     G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MATERIALS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PLAN


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   L- 203
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1" =
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  20'-0"
                                                                                 200 - MATERIALS PLAN - LV 2                                                                                       NORTH                      0                           20   40            60   SCALE
                                                                             1
                                                                                 1" = 20'-0"
                                                                                                  1                      2                     3                   4         5         6   7
                                                                                                  1            2                       3           4           5   6         7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  KEYNOTES LEGEND

                                                                                                                                                                                       01 - PAVEMENT, RAMPS, AND CURBS
                                                                                                                                                                                       Keynote                                                        Detail         Quantity

                                                                                                                                                                                        01-01        L - Pedestal Paver - Concrete                                  11323 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                        01-02        L - Pedestal Paver - Wood Tile                                  6514 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                        01-03        L - Concrete                                                   61283 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                        01-04        L - Concrete - Vehicular                                       19078 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                        01-05        L - Concrete - Integral Color                                  11130 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                        01-06        L - Playground Fall Surfacing                                    822 SF
                                                                         A                                                                                                       A
                                                                                                                                                                                        01-08        L - Artificial Turf - Pedestal Paver                             683 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                        01-09        L - Concrete - Gutter                                           2466 SF




                                                                                                                                                                                       02 - JOINTS
                                                                                                                                                                                       Keynote                                                        Detail




                                                                                                                                                                                       03 - SITE STAIRS
                                                                                                                                                                                       Keynote                                                        Detail           Count




                                                                                                                                                                                       04 - SITE WALLS
                                                                                                                                                                                       Keynote                                                        Detail          Length

                                                                                                                                                                                        04-01        Concrete Wall - 8"                                                  242'
                                                                                                                                                                                        04-02        Concrete Wall - 18"                                                 324'
                                                                                                                                                                                        04-03        Spa Wall - 12"                                                       60'
                                                                                                                                                                                        04-04        Raised Planter - 6" Finish Height                                 1,151'
                                                                                                                                                                                        04-05        Raised Planter - 30" Finish Height                                2,108'
                                                                                                                                                                                        04-06        Concrete Wall - 6"                                                  126'

                                                                                                                                                                                       05 - SITE FURNISHINGS
                                                                                                                                                                                       Keynote                                                        Detail           Count

                                                                                                                                                                                        05-01        Picnic Table 30 ft                                                    1
                                                                                                                                                                                        05-02        Bistro Table and 2 Chairs                                            13
                                                                                                                                                                                        05-03        Bistro Table and 3 Chairs                                            37
                                                                         B                                                                                                       B      05-04        Adirondack Lounger                                                   21
                                                                                                                                                                                        05-05        Picnic Table 12 ft                                                    3
                                                                                                                                                                                        05-06        Picnic Table 12 ft - Single Side                                      2


                                                                                                                                                                                       06 - SITE RAILINGS AND FENCES
                                                                                                                                                                                       Keynote                                                        Detail

                                                                                                                                                                                        06-01        Fence - Dining - 36"                                              120 ft
                                                                                                                                                                                        06-02        Fence - Dog Park - 48"                                            210 ft
                                                                                                                                                                                        06-03        Pool Fence - 72"                                                  270 ft


                                                                                                                                                                                       07 - LIGHTING
                                                                                                                                                                                       Keynote                                                        Detail         Quantity

                                                                                                                                                                                        07-01        Aura Ring                                                            12
                                                                                                                                                                                        07-03        Light Pole - Single Head                                              3
                                                                                                                                                                                        07-04        Light Pole - Dual Head                                                4


                                                                                                                                                                                       10 - MISCELLANEOUS ELEMENTS
                                                                                                                                                                                       Keynote                                                        Detail         Quantity

                                                                                                                                                                                        10-01        Round Planter                                                        12
                                                                                                                                                                                        10-02        Flat Rainbow 4' Tree Grate                                           18
                                                                                                                                                                                        10-03        Tree Grate - SLC Standard                                            14
                                                                                                                                                                                        10-04        Parking Stop                                                         22
                                                                                                                                                                                        10-05        Play Structure - Orb                                                  1
                                                                                                                                                                                        10-06        Earthscapes Log Pile 6.1 - No Net                                     1
                                                                                                                                                                                        10-07        BBQ Grill                                                             2
                                                                                                                                                                                        10-08        Trash Can                                                             1
                                                                                                                                                                                        10-09        Round Bollard                                                       110
                                                                                                                                                                                        10-10        House Pergola                                                         1
                                                                                                                                                                                        10-11        Side Pergola                                                          1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            MARKET CENTER
                                                                         C                                                                                                       C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PROJECT NAME:



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     South Salt Lake, Utah
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        _
                                                                         D                                                                                                       D




                                                                                                                                                                       OVN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        569 EAST 2ND AVENUE BUILDING B
                                                                                                                                               05-04                                                                                                                                       SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84103
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               www.loci-slc.com
                                                                                                                                               01-02                                                                                                                                             801.906.0399
                                                                                                                                               05-05




                                                                         E                                                                                                       E




                                                                                                                       05-05   01-01
                                                                                                                       06-03   01-02
                                                                                                                       04-03   05-03
                                                                                                                                               01-01

                                                                                                                                               01-08
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PROJECT MANAGER Approver

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DRAWN BY Author

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CLIENT JOB NO. Project Number

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CREATION DATE 10/15/24

                                                                                                                                           01-02                                                                                                                                                                                             REVISED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                XX       DATE          DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               BY:
                                                                                                                                           05-04




                                                                         F                                                                                                       F

                                                                                                                                                       10-10
                                                                                                                                                       10-11
                                                                                                                                                       01-02
                                                                                                               05-06                                   01-01
                                                                                                               10-07

                                                                                                               01-02




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DESIGN DEVELOPMENT
Autodesk Docs://2024-10106 State Street/StateStreet_Landscape_Loci.rvt




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PROGRESS SET

                                                                         G                                                                                                       G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MATERIALS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PLAN


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     L- 204
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1" =
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    20'-0"
                                                                                 200 - MATERIALS PLAN - LV 6                                                                         NORTH                      0                           20   40            60   SCALE
                                                                             1
                                                                                 1" = 20'-0"
                                                                                                  1            2                       3           4           5   6         7
    1   2   3   4   5   6   7   8   9                        10                                                           11




                                        CONCEPT PLANT SCHEDULE


A                                            SMALL TREE                                                                        125         A
                                             Acer griseum / Paperbark Maple
                                             Amelanchier laevis / Allegheny Serviceberry Multi-trunk
                                             Betula occidentalis / Water Birch




                                             MEDIUM TREE                                                                       66
                                             Celtis occidentalis 'Prairie Pride' / Prairie Pride Hackberry
                                             Gymnocladus dioicus / Kentucky Coffeetree
                                             Parrotia persica 'Inge's Ruby Vase' / Ruby Vase Persian Parrotia
                                             Ulmus parvifolia 'Allee' / Allee® Lacebark Elm
                                             Zelkova serrata 'Village Green' / Village Green Japanese Zelkova




                                             LARGE TREE                                                                        1




                                                                                                                                                                               SOUTH SALT LAKE, UTAH
                                             Acer pseudoplatanus 'Atropurpureum' / Purple Sycamore Maple
                                             Gleditsia triacanthos inermis 'Shademaster' / Shademaster Honey Locust




                                                                                                                                                                    MARKET CENTER
                                             Platanus x acerifolia 'Morton Circle' / Exclamation!™ London Plane Tree

B                                                                                                                                          B


                                             CONIFER TREE                                                                      9
                                             Taxodium distichum / Bald Cypress


                                             TALL HEIGHT UNDERSTORY PLANTING                                                   3,313 sf
                                             Cytisus purgans 'Spanish Gold' / Spanish Gold Broom




                                                                                                                                                    PROJECT NAME:
                                             Ligustrum vulgare 'Lodense' / Lodense Privet
                                             Prunus laurocerasus 'Otto Luyken' / Otto Luyken English Laurel
                                             Rhus trilobata / Skunkbush Sumac


                                             MEDIUM HEIGHT UNDERSTORY PLANTING                                                 24,150 sf
                                             Bouteloua gracilis 'Blonde Ambition' / Blonde Ambition Blue Grama
                                             Festuca mairei / Atlas Fescue
                                             Helictotrichon sempervirens / Blue Oat Grass
                                             Mahonia repens / Creeping Mahonia
                                             Nepeta x faassenii 'Walker's Low' / Walker's Low Catmint
                                             Pennisetum alopecuroides 'Burgundy Bunny' / Burgundy Bunny Dwarf Fountain Grass
                                             Pennisetum alopecuroides 'Hameln' / Hameln Fountain Grass
C                                                                                                                                          C
                                             Rhus aromatica 'Gro-Low' / Gro-Low Fragrant Sumac
                                             Rudbeckia x 'American Gold Rush' / American Gold Rush Coneflower


                                             LOW HEIGHT UNDERSTORY PLANTING                                                    6,138 sf
                                             Ceratostigma plumbaginoides / Dwarf Plumbago
                                             Eriogonum umbellatum / Sulfurflower Buckwheat
                                             Euonymus fortunei 'Colorata' / Purple-leaf Wintercreeper
                                             Liriope spicata / Creeping Lilyturf
                                             Penstemon pinifolius 'Compactum' / Half Pint® Threadleaf Beardtongue
                                             Vinca minor / Common Periwinkle


                                             LAWN                                                                              3,313 sf
                                             Poa pratensis / Kentucky Bluegrass




D                                                                                                                                          D




                                                                                                                                                           569 EAST 2ND AVENUE BUILDING B
                                                                                                                                                              SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84103
                                                                                                                                                                  www.loci-slc.com
                                                                                                                                                                    801.906.0399




E                                                                                                                                          E




F                                                                                                                                          F




G                                                                                                                                          G




                                                                                                                                               PROJECT MANAGER

                                                                                                                                                            DRAWN BY

                                                                                                                                                     CLIENT JOB NO.

                                                                                                                                                    CREATION DATE

                                                                                                                                                                                                       REVISED
                                                                                                                                               XX         DATE             DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                         BY:



H                                                                                                                                          H




I                                                                                                                                          I




                                                                                                                                                      DD PROGRESS SET


                                                                                                                                                       KET CENTER -
J                                                                                                                                          J
                                                                                                                                                        PLANTING
                                                                                                                                                          PLAN

                                                                                                                                                            L5.01
    1   2   3   4   5   6   7   8   9                        10                                                           11
    1   2   3   4   5   6   7   8   9                        10                                                           11




                                        CONCEPT PLANT SCHEDULE


A                                            SMALL TREE                                                                        125         A
                                             Acer griseum / Paperbark Maple
                                             Amelanchier laevis / Allegheny Serviceberry Multi-trunk
                                             Betula occidentalis / Water Birch




                                             MEDIUM TREE                                                                       66
                                             Celtis occidentalis 'Prairie Pride' / Prairie Pride Hackberry
                                             Gymnocladus dioicus / Kentucky Coffeetree
                                             Parrotia persica 'Inge's Ruby Vase' / Ruby Vase Persian Parrotia
                                             Ulmus parvifolia 'Allee' / Allee® Lacebark Elm
                                             Zelkova serrata 'Village Green' / Village Green Japanese Zelkova




                                             LARGE TREE                                                                        1




                                                                                                                                                                               SOUTH SALT LAKE, UTAH
                                             Acer pseudoplatanus 'Atropurpureum' / Purple Sycamore Maple
                                             Gleditsia triacanthos inermis 'Shademaster' / Shademaster Honey Locust




                                                                                                                                                                    MARKET CENTER
                                             Platanus x acerifolia 'Morton Circle' / Exclamation!™ London Plane Tree

B                                                                                                                                          B


                                             CONIFER TREE                                                                      9
                                             Taxodium distichum / Bald Cypress


                                             TALL HEIGHT UNDERSTORY PLANTING                                                   3,313 sf
                                             Cytisus purgans 'Spanish Gold' / Spanish Gold Broom




                                                                                                                                                    PROJECT NAME:
                                             Ligustrum vulgare 'Lodense' / Lodense Privet
                                             Prunus laurocerasus 'Otto Luyken' / Otto Luyken English Laurel
                                             Rhus trilobata / Skunkbush Sumac


                                             MEDIUM HEIGHT UNDERSTORY PLANTING                                                 24,150 sf
                                             Bouteloua gracilis 'Blonde Ambition' / Blonde Ambition Blue Grama
                                             Festuca mairei / Atlas Fescue
                                             Helictotrichon sempervirens / Blue Oat Grass
                                             Mahonia repens / Creeping Mahonia
                                             Nepeta x faassenii 'Walker's Low' / Walker's Low Catmint
                                             Pennisetum alopecuroides 'Burgundy Bunny' / Burgundy Bunny Dwarf Fountain Grass
                                             Pennisetum alopecuroides 'Hameln' / Hameln Fountain Grass
C                                                                                                                                          C
                                             Rhus aromatica 'Gro-Low' / Gro-Low Fragrant Sumac
                                             Rudbeckia x 'American Gold Rush' / American Gold Rush Coneflower


                                             LOW HEIGHT UNDERSTORY PLANTING                                                    6,138 sf
                                             Ceratostigma plumbaginoides / Dwarf Plumbago
                                             Eriogonum umbellatum / Sulfurflower Buckwheat
                                             Euonymus fortunei 'Colorata' / Purple-leaf Wintercreeper
                                             Liriope spicata / Creeping Lilyturf
                                             Penstemon pinifolius 'Compactum' / Half Pint® Threadleaf Beardtongue
                                             Vinca minor / Common Periwinkle


                                             LAWN                                                                              3,313 sf
                                             Poa pratensis / Kentucky Bluegrass




D                                                                                                                                          D




                                                                                                                                                           569 EAST 2ND AVENUE BUILDING B
                                                                                                                                                              SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84103
                                                                                                                                                                  www.loci-slc.com
                                                                                                                                                                    801.906.0399




E                                                                                                                                          E




F                                                                                                                                          F




G                                                                                                                                          G




                                                                                                                                               PROJECT MANAGER

                                                                                                                                                            DRAWN BY

                                                                                                                                                     CLIENT JOB NO.

                                                                                                                                                    CREATION DATE

                                                                                                                                                                                                       REVISED
                                                                                                                                               XX         DATE             DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                         BY:



H                                                                                                                                          H




I                                                                                                                                          I




                                                                                                                                                      DD PROGRESS SET


                                                                                                                                                       KET CENTER -
J                                                                                                                                          J
                                                                                                                                                        PLANTING
                                                                                                                                                          PLAN

                                                                                                                                                           L5.02
    1   2   3   4   5   6   7   8   9                        10                                                           11
    1   2   3   4   5   6   7   8   9                        10                                                           11




                                        CONCEPT PLANT SCHEDULE


A                                            SMALL TREE                                                                        125         A
                                             Acer griseum / Paperbark Maple
                                             Amelanchier laevis / Allegheny Serviceberry Multi-trunk
                                             Betula occidentalis / Water Birch




                                             MEDIUM TREE                                                                       66
                                             Celtis occidentalis 'Prairie Pride' / Prairie Pride Hackberry
                                             Gymnocladus dioicus / Kentucky Coffeetree
                                             Parrotia persica 'Inge's Ruby Vase' / Ruby Vase Persian Parrotia
                                             Ulmus parvifolia 'Allee' / Allee® Lacebark Elm
                                             Zelkova serrata 'Village Green' / Village Green Japanese Zelkova




                                             LARGE TREE                                                                        1




                                                                                                                                                                               SOUTH SALT LAKE, UTAH
                                             Acer pseudoplatanus 'Atropurpureum' / Purple Sycamore Maple
                                             Gleditsia triacanthos inermis 'Shademaster' / Shademaster Honey Locust




                                                                                                                                                                    MARKET CENTER
                                             Platanus x acerifolia 'Morton Circle' / Exclamation!™ London Plane Tree

B                                                                                                                                          B


                                             CONIFER TREE                                                                      9
                                             Taxodium distichum / Bald Cypress


                                             TALL HEIGHT UNDERSTORY PLANTING                                                   3,313 sf
                                             Cytisus purgans 'Spanish Gold' / Spanish Gold Broom




                                                                                                                                                    PROJECT NAME:
                                             Ligustrum vulgare 'Lodense' / Lodense Privet
                                             Prunus laurocerasus 'Otto Luyken' / Otto Luyken English Laurel
                                             Rhus trilobata / Skunkbush Sumac


                                             MEDIUM HEIGHT UNDERSTORY PLANTING                                                 24,150 sf
                                             Bouteloua gracilis 'Blonde Ambition' / Blonde Ambition Blue Grama
                                             Festuca mairei / Atlas Fescue
                                             Helictotrichon sempervirens / Blue Oat Grass
                                             Mahonia repens / Creeping Mahonia
                                             Nepeta x faassenii 'Walker's Low' / Walker's Low Catmint
                                             Pennisetum alopecuroides 'Burgundy Bunny' / Burgundy Bunny Dwarf Fountain Grass
                                             Pennisetum alopecuroides 'Hameln' / Hameln Fountain Grass
C                                                                                                                                          C
                                             Rhus aromatica 'Gro-Low' / Gro-Low Fragrant Sumac
                                             Rudbeckia x 'American Gold Rush' / American Gold Rush Coneflower


                                             LOW HEIGHT UNDERSTORY PLANTING                                                    6,138 sf
                                             Ceratostigma plumbaginoides / Dwarf Plumbago
                                             Eriogonum umbellatum / Sulfurflower Buckwheat
                                             Euonymus fortunei 'Colorata' / Purple-leaf Wintercreeper
                                             Liriope spicata / Creeping Lilyturf
                                             Penstemon pinifolius 'Compactum' / Half Pint® Threadleaf Beardtongue
                                             Vinca minor / Common Periwinkle


                                             LAWN                                                                              3,313 sf
                                             Poa pratensis / Kentucky Bluegrass




D                                                                                                                                          D




                                                                                                                                                           569 EAST 2ND AVENUE BUILDING B
                                                                                                                                                              SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84103
                                                                                                                                                                  www.loci-slc.com
                                                                                                                                                                    801.906.0399




E                                                                                                                                          E




F                                                                                                                                          F




G                                                                                                                                          G




                                                                                                                                               PROJECT MANAGER

                                                                                                                                                            DRAWN BY

                                                                                                                                                     CLIENT JOB NO.

                                                                                                                                                    CREATION DATE

                                                                                                                                                                                                       REVISED
                                                                                                                                               XX         DATE             DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                         BY:



H                                                                                                                                          H




I                                                                                                                                          I




                                                                                                                                                      DD PROGRESS SET


                                                                                                                                                       KET CENTER -
J                                                                                                                                          J
                                                                                                                                                        PLANTING
                                                                                                                                                          PLAN

                                                                                                                                                          L5.03
    1   2   3   4   5   6   7   8   9                        10                                                           11
    1   2   3   4   5   6   7   8   9                        10                                                           11




                                        CONCEPT PLANT SCHEDULE


A                                            SMALL TREE                                                                        125         A
                                             Acer griseum / Paperbark Maple
                                             Amelanchier laevis / Allegheny Serviceberry Multi-trunk
                                             Betula occidentalis / Water Birch




                                             MEDIUM TREE                                                                       66
                                             Celtis occidentalis 'Prairie Pride' / Prairie Pride Hackberry
                                             Gymnocladus dioicus / Kentucky Coffeetree
                                             Parrotia persica 'Inge's Ruby Vase' / Ruby Vase Persian Parrotia
                                             Ulmus parvifolia 'Allee' / Allee® Lacebark Elm
                                             Zelkova serrata 'Village Green' / Village Green Japanese Zelkova




                                             LARGE TREE                                                                        1




                                                                                                                                                                               SOUTH SALT LAKE, UTAH
                                             Acer pseudoplatanus 'Atropurpureum' / Purple Sycamore Maple
                                             Gleditsia triacanthos inermis 'Shademaster' / Shademaster Honey Locust




                                                                                                                                                                    MARKET CENTER
                                             Platanus x acerifolia 'Morton Circle' / Exclamation!™ London Plane Tree

B                                                                                                                                          B


                                             CONIFER TREE                                                                      9
                                             Taxodium distichum / Bald Cypress


                                             TALL HEIGHT UNDERSTORY PLANTING                                                   3,313 sf
                                             Cytisus purgans 'Spanish Gold' / Spanish Gold Broom




                                                                                                                                                    PROJECT NAME:
                                             Ligustrum vulgare 'Lodense' / Lodense Privet
                                             Prunus laurocerasus 'Otto Luyken' / Otto Luyken English Laurel
                                             Rhus trilobata / Skunkbush Sumac


                                             MEDIUM HEIGHT UNDERSTORY PLANTING                                                 24,150 sf
                                             Bouteloua gracilis 'Blonde Ambition' / Blonde Ambition Blue Grama
                                             Festuca mairei / Atlas Fescue
                                             Helictotrichon sempervirens / Blue Oat Grass
                                             Mahonia repens / Creeping Mahonia
                                             Nepeta x faassenii 'Walker's Low' / Walker's Low Catmint
                                             Pennisetum alopecuroides 'Burgundy Bunny' / Burgundy Bunny Dwarf Fountain Grass
                                             Pennisetum alopecuroides 'Hameln' / Hameln Fountain Grass
C                                                                                                                                          C
                                             Rhus aromatica 'Gro-Low' / Gro-Low Fragrant Sumac
                                             Rudbeckia x 'American Gold Rush' / American Gold Rush Coneflower


                                             LOW HEIGHT UNDERSTORY PLANTING                                                    6,138 sf
                                             Ceratostigma plumbaginoides / Dwarf Plumbago
                                             Eriogonum umbellatum / Sulfurflower Buckwheat
                                             Euonymus fortunei 'Colorata' / Purple-leaf Wintercreeper
                                             Liriope spicata / Creeping Lilyturf
                                             Penstemon pinifolius 'Compactum' / Half Pint® Threadleaf Beardtongue
                                             Vinca minor / Common Periwinkle


                                             LAWN                                                                              3,313 sf
                                             Poa pratensis / Kentucky Bluegrass




D                                                                                                                                          D




                                                                                                                                                           569 EAST 2ND AVENUE BUILDING B
                                                                                                                                                              SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84103
                                                                                                                                                                  www.loci-slc.com
                                                                                                                                                                    801.906.0399




E                                                                                                                                          E




F                                                                                                                                          F




G                                                                                                                                          G




                                                                                                                                               PROJECT MANAGER

                                                                                                                                                            DRAWN BY

                                                                                                                                                     CLIENT JOB NO.

                                                                                                                                                    CREATION DATE

                                                                                                                                                                                                       REVISED
                                                                                                                                               XX         DATE             DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                         BY:



H                                                                                                                                          H




I                                                                                                                                          I




                                                                                                                                                      DD PROGRESS SET


                                                                                                                                                       KET CENTER -
J                                                                                                                                          J
                                                                                                                                                        PLANTING
                                                                                                                                                          PLAN

                                                                                                                                                          L5.04
    1   2   3   4   5   6   7   8   9                        10                                                           11
      EXHIBIT E

INTENTIONALLY OMITTED
      EXHIBIT F

BUILDING 1 FLOOR PLANS

      See attached.
      EXHIBIT G

INTENTIONALLY OMITTED
      EXHIBIT H

BUILDING 2 FLOOR PLANS

      See attached.
      EXHIBIT I

INTENTIONALLY OMITTED
      EXHIBIT J

BUILDING 3 FLOOR PLANS

      See attached.
      EXHIBIT K

INTENTIONALLY OMITTED
      EXHIBIT L

BUILDING 4 FLOOR PLANS
  EXHIBIT M

EGC STANDARDS
                               Enterprise Green Communities Standards



The development known as Market Center in South Salt Lake, Utah, is pursuing Enterprise Green
Communities (EGC) certification across multiple buildings to create high-performing, environmentally
responsible housing that enhances the well-being of future residents while reducing environmental
impact. Each mixed-use building within the development is designed and constructed to meet or exceed
the 2020 EGC criteria, contributing to a cohesive, sustainable community.

Integrative Design

All buildings are located within an established urban neighborhood, taking advantage of existing
infrastructure and amenities. This infill development supports walkability, transit access, and proximity to
local food, employment, and open space—promoting a healthier, more connected community. Each
building will offer residents broadband internet access, and local workforce participation will be
encouraged by engaging subcontractors from within Salt Lake County.

Location + Neighborhood Fabric

Because the site is located on an urban infill lot, points are easily awarded by the EGC team due to the
promotion of healthy livability within a walkable neighborhood with transit options and access to fresh
local foods and to park spaces. By locating the buildings within a neighborhood of existing infrastructure,
land resources and energy are conserved, while the carbon footprint associated with new infrastructure is
reduced. The occupants within the buildings will be provided with free broadband internet network
access, and the contractor will be responsible for sourcing subcontractors from within the county.

Site Improvement

Low-impact development strategies are being applied across all sites. Native and adapted plant species,
efficient irrigation, and thoughtful site planning will help manage stormwater and minimize disruption.
These approaches preserve natural systems and enhance the resilience of the built environment.

Water

The project is designed to reduce potable water demand for indoor water usage by a minimum of 30%
from the baseline through low-flow and low-flush plumbing fixtures and energy star appliances, including
dishwashers and clothes washers. Occupants will enjoy optimal water quality with a legionella plan
developed to ensure checks on water temperatures and fixtures are ongoing and maintained.

Operating Energy

All buildings energy demand will be analyzed and will be modeled to be certified using ENERGY STAR
for Multifamily New Construction, with an additional points being pursued for reducing energy demand
from the baseline further, mostly through appropriately sizing the mechanical heating and cooling
equipment. Rooftop solar panels are being considered in key areas, and the building will likely have the
infrastructure in place for the future installment of rooftop solar. All clothes washers, dishwashers and
refrigerators are specified to be ENERGY STAR. High-efficacy LED lighting is being installed
throughout the buildings to reduce the overall lighting power density but with controls and lighting
quality specified for the best livability.

Materials

The design team chose environmentally responsible materials and most specifically specified and is
currently installing only those materials that comply with stringent low-emitting requirements to protect
the occupants and visitors within the building. Only durable water-resistant materials are to be installed in
wet areas such as laundry, baths and kitchen spaces. Moisture is managed through the design of
foundations, walls and roofing systems. The design team will work with the contractor to ensure a
minimum of 75% of the total construction waste is diverted from the landfill or that a minimum of 100%
of the waste from at least two waste streams are diverted from the landfill. Recycling storage is available
to tenants and accessible from each floor through a recycling chute.

Healthy Living Environment

Residents, staff and visitors are provided with a healthy living environment through source reduction. Any
combustion equipment is properly ventilated from the dwelling units, and the parking garage is isolated
from the dwelling units via continuously separated fire walls and building materials and proper
ventilation. The buildings will be a smoke-free property, and the project design and operations team has
coordinated an integrative pest management plan to ensure any invasive pests are first addressed through
source control measures before the application of any pesticides, and to ensure any building occupants are
giving notice regarding the usage of any necessary pesticides. Ventilation and dehumidification are
properly addressed within the units with adequate run-time fans in wet spaces, and ductwork is specified
to be installed per the manufacturer’s recommendations. Ductwork is specified to be protected during
construction from dust and debris. The project is designed to be universally accessible.



Operations, Maintenance, and Resident Engagement

The buildings are designed to be commissioned with the development of a building manual that addresses
how to properly maintain the buildings’ systems with building operational personnel. Residents will be
given a resident manual on the benefits of their green home and how to best use the systems and features
within their home to ensure a high performing building and a living space with optimal environmental
quality. Each resident will receive a comprehensive walk-through with building operations staff. Energy
and water data will be collected and benchmarked utilizing ENERGY STAR Portfolio Manager. Residents
will be provided with an emergency response manual with regular tests to ensure all occupants are kept
abreast of any changes and stay alert and to ensure the systems function properly.
      EXHIBIT N

INTENTIONALLY OMITTED
       EXHIBIT O

SOIL CELL SPECIFICATIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                  NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                                                REVIEW
    3" PERFORATED HDPE PIPE
    SLEEVE WITHIN SOIL CELL
                                              ROOTBALL
          TECHLINE TEE
                                                   DRIPLINE OVER ROOTBALL, TWO RUNS,
                                                   ENSURE 4 EMITTERS, TWO FROM EACH
     8" WIDE X 8" DEEP
                                                   RUN, REST ON TOP OF ROOTBALL
     CONCRETE BAND AT
     CURB AND GUTTER                                  3" PERFORATED HDPE PIPE
                                                      SLEEVE WITHIN SOIL CELL
     CURB AND GUTTER                                   SOIL CELL
                                                                 TECHLINE IN 3" PERFORATED
                                                                 HDPE PIPE SLEEVE WITHIN SOIL
                                                                 CELL, TYP.




                                                                                                                                                                                                    GGG
                                                                                                                                                                       EG


                                                                                                                                                                                           CHECKED BY
                                                                                                                                                                       DRAWN BY

                                                                                                                                                                                           QC
                                                                                                                                                                                           7/30/2024
                                                                                                                                                SOUTH SALT LAKE



                                                                                                                                                                                                          DATE
B    SOIL CELLS AT TREE - CROSS SECTION




                                                                                                                                                                -




                                                                                                                                                                                                          PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER
                                                                                     TECHLINE 180 2-WAY TEE AT PVC RISER
                                                                                     FROM PVC LATERAL BELOW

                                                                                    3" PERFORATED HDPE TRIPLE WALL PIPE (SMOOTH




                                                                                                                                                                    APPROVED
                                                                                    WALL) SLEEVE WRAPPED IN FILTER FABRIC, ONE
                                                                                    ROW OF PERFORATIONS TO FACE DOWN
                                                                                     DRIPLINE WITHIN PERFORATED HDPE PIPE
                                                                                     SLEEVE, DRIP LINE PER PLAN

                                                                                    SUB-SURFACE SOIL CELL OUTLINE

                                                                                    TWO RUNS OF DRIPLINE OVER ROOTBALL,
                                                                                                                                  PRELIMINARY




                                                                                                                                                                                                IRRIGATION DETAILS
                                                                                    ENSURE AT LEAST 4 EMITTERS REST ON
                                                                                    TOP OF ROOTBALL




                                                                                                                                                -
                                                                                                                                                           -
                                                                                                                                                                     -
                                                                                     TREE PIT OPENING IN CONCRETE


                                                  TECHLINE TEE
                                                TREE ROOTBALL
                                              PROVIDE BREAK IN SLEEVE WITHIN TREE PIT OPENING,
                                              EXTEND SLEEVE 2" BEYOND EDGE OF SOIL CELL




                                                                                                                                                      PROJECT



                                                                                                                                                                    PROJECT
                                                                                                                                                                    NUMBER
A    PLAN - DRIPLINE LAYOUT IN TREE PIT AND SUB-SURFACE SOIL CELLS
                                                                                                                                                SHEET NO.
                                                                                                                                                                         IRD-X1
                                                                                              OPENING VARIES, SEE CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                 PLANS FOR MODEL AND VERIFY
                                                                                                 DIMENSION WITH TREE GRATE
                                                                                                  MANUFACTURE DETAILS AND
                                                                                                    SPECIFICATIONS FOR
                                                                                               TREE GRATE INSTALLATION, ADJUST
                                                                                                       ACCORDINGLY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                               REVIEW
                                                                          10"                           10"
                                                                                                   A


                                                 K   F   E     J    B     Q     I                  C     H        G   M   D   L       E       F




                                                                                                                                                                     PRELIMINARY


                                  MANUFACTURE4" 4"
               MIN. EXCAVATION



               SPECIFICATIONS
               MANUFACTURES




                                 DEPTH / SIZE PER
                                 CONSTRUCTION
                DETAILS AND
                 DEPTH PER




                                   PLANS AND
                                         4"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CHECKED BY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DRAWN BY
                                                                                                                    N             O       P




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          QC
                                                                        VARIES, SEE CELL LAYOUT ON CONSTRUCTION PLANS
                                                              6"                                                            6"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          7/30/2024
                CALLOUTS                                     MIN.                                                          MIN.




                                                                                                                                                                                                               SOUTH SALT LAKE



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DATE
                                                                                                             K.   COMPACTED BACKFILL PER PROJECT SPECIFICATIONS - BACKFILL PER
                A.     TREE - SEE PLANTING PLAN FOR TREE TYPE                                                     PROJECT SPECIFICATIONS AND BE FREE OF ORGANIC MATERIAL,
                                                                                                                  TRASH, AND OTHER DEBRIS AND TOXIC MATERIALS INJURIOUS TO
                B.    PAVEMENT PER ENGINEER'S PLANS, PROVIDE THICKENED EDGE AT                                    PLANT GROWTH. COMPACT PER PROJECT SPECIFICATIONS OR 95%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -
                      TREE PIT OPENING                                                                            STANDARD PROCTOR DENSITY.

                C.     TREE GRATE & FRAME - INSTALL PER MANUFACTURE'S DETAILS AND                            L.   SOIL CELL / PAVEMENT SUPPORT SYSTEM , LAYERS PER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER
                       SPECIFICATIONS AND APWA STANDARDS.                                                         MANUFACTURES RECOMMENDATIONS AND PROJECT CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                  DRAWINGS. CELLS SHALL BE FILLED WITH PLANTING SOIL.
                D.    AGGREGATE BASE PER ENGINEER'S PLANS, DEPTH AND COMPACTION
                      PER ENGINEER'S PLANS                                                                   M.   PLANTING SOIL - SCREENED SANDY LOAM SOIL WITH 4-8% ORGANICS
                                                                                                                  BY VOLUME. SEE PLANTING SOIL SPECIFICATIONS FOR ADDITIONAL
                E.    GEOCOMPOSITE/GRID - PLACE HORIZONTALLY ON TOP OF THE SOIL                                   INFORMATION. FOOT COMPACTION ONLY. NOTE: PLANTING SOIL
                      CELLS. FOLD THE GEOCOMPOSITE/GRID DOWN THE OUTER EDGE                                       SHALL BE SANDY LOAM IN ALL SOIL CELLS FOR DRAINAGE. NO CLAY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   APPROVED
                      10"-12" AND FOLD IT OUT HORIZONTALLY 10"-12". OVERLAP SEAMS                                 SOILS SHALL BE INSTALLED
                      10"-12".
                                                                                                             N.   GEOGRID REINFORCEMENT FOR SOIL - PLACE ON TOP OF
                F.    ROOT BARRIER - APPROPRIATELY SIZED ROOT BARRIER THAT WRAPS                                  AGGREGATE SUB-BASE                                             Call before you D g
                      VERTICALLY AROUND THE SOIL CELLS ENTIRE DEPTH. INSTALL PER                                                                                                 Avoid cutting underground
                                                                                                                                                                                 utility lines. It's costly.
                      MANUFACTURES DETAILS AND SPECIFICATIONS.                                               O.   AGGREGATE SUB-BASE / DRAINAGE LAYER - 4" MINIMUM DEPTH,
                                                                                                                  COMPACT TO 95% STANDARD PROCTOR DENSITY
                G.    ROOT BARRIER - ROOT BARRIER APPROPRIATELY SIZED AT CONCRETE
                      THICKENED EDGE. INSTALL PER MANUFACTURE'S DETAILS AND                                  P.   COMPACTED SUB-GRADE
                      SPECIFICATIONS..
                                                                                                             Q.   DRIPLINE IRRIGATION IN 3" PERFORATED SMOOTH WALLED POLY PIPE




                                                                                                                                                                                                               -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -
                H.     COMPACTED SOIL ROOTBALL PEDESTAL                                                           WRAPPED IN A FILTER SOCK. SEE IRRIGATION PLANS AND DETAILS
                                                                                                                  AND SOIL CELL SPECIFICATIONS FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
                I.    ROOTBALL
                                                                                                         NOTES:
                J.    INLET & PIPE PER MANUFACTURERS DETAILS AND SPECIFICATIONS -
                                                                                                          1. REVISE DETAIL AS NEEDED FOR SITE SPECIFIC CONDITIONS.
                      LOCATE NORTH AND SOUTH OF TREE. INSTALL PER MANUFACTURE'S                                                                                                              OR
                                                                                                          2. PROVIDE SHOP DRAWINGS TO RESIDENT ENGINEER / CITY ENGINEER
                      DETAILS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
                                                                                                             PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION FOR APPROVAL.                                       1-800-662-4111




                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PROJECT



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PROJECT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   NUMBER
                                                                                                                                                                                             OR

A   TREE GRATE AND SUB-SURFACE SOIL CELL                                                                                                                                               1-801-208-2100
                                                                                                                                                                                                               SHEET NO.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PLD-X1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                                                                                REVIEW
                                                                                                                         NOTE:
                                                                                                                         IN END VAULTS WITH NO VALVES, PROVIDE MANIFOLD ONLY.



                                PRELIMINARY
                                                                                                                    NETAFIM TECHLINE DRIPLINE
                                                                                                                    WITHIN SOIL CELLS

                                                                                                                    3" PERFORATED HDPE PIPE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GGG
                                                                                                                                                                                                       EG
                                                                                                                    SLEEVE WITHIN SOIL CELLS.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CHECKED BY
                                                                                                                    PLACE BELOW CELL LID.




                                                                                                                                                                                                       DRAWN BY
                                                                                                           1" DIAMETER PVC DRAIN HOLE.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           QC
                                                                                                           12" O.C. INSTALL PVC AT TIME OF
                                                                                                           POURING FOOTING.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           7/30/2024
                                                                                                                                                                                SOUTH SALT LAKE



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DATE
                                                                                                                 3" HDPE PIPE SLEEVE


                                                                     EXPANSION JOINT BETWEEN




                                                                                                                                                                                                -
IRON AGE MADE TRENCH                                                 VAULT WALLS AND ADJACENT
GRATE, 2'x2'. HEEL PROOF. ADA                                        FLATWORK, EXPANSION JOINT             IRRIGATION MANIFOLD. SCH 40




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER
COMPLIANT. PEDESTRIAN LOAD                                           PER ENGINEERS DETAILS AND             PVC.
ONLY.                                                                SPECIFICATIONS.
EMBEDDED #3 BAR WELDED                                               DO NOT BEND TECHLINE
                                                                     SMALLER THAN 7" RADIUS TO             IRRIGATION LATERAL LINE TO
TO 1/8" ANGLE IRON FULL
                                                                     AVOID KINKING THE HOSE.               MANIFOLD
PERIMETER FRAME, #3 BAR
TO BE 18" O.C. EACH WAY.                                             3" PERFORATED HDPE PIPE SLEEVE
MIN TWO PER SIDE OF 2'x2'                                            WITHIN SOIL CELLS. PROVIDE SOCK




                                                                                                                                                                                                    APPROVED
GRATE.                                                               AROUND PERFORATED PIPE. PLACE
HORIZONTAL #4 REBAR.                                                 BELOW CELL LID.                       RB FLOW CONTROL ZONE KIT
MAINTAIN 3" CLEAR, TYP.                                              BEGIN NETAFIM TECHLINE
VERTICAL #4 REBAR 18" O.C.                                           DRIPLINE BEFORE PERFORATED
MAINTAIN 3" CLEAR.                                                   PIPE
FLOW CONTROL ZONE KIT,                                                  SOIL CELL / PAVEMENT
                                                                        SUPPORT                                  HOSE QUICK COUPLER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IRRIGATION DETAILS
QUICK COUPLER, ETC.
                                       8" DEEP 34" DRAINAGE GRAVEL      GEOGRID REINFORCEMENT FOR                GATE VALVE
HORIZONTAL #4 REBAR 18"                UNDER FOOTING. PROVIDE           SOIL. PLACE ON TOP OF




                                                                                                                                                                                -
                                                                                                                                                                                           -
                                                                        AGGREGATE SUB-BASE, TYP.




                                                                                                                                                                                                     -
O.C. MAX EACH WAY.                     FILTER FABRIC BETWEEN
MAINTAIN 3" CLEAR.                     DRAINAGE GRAVEL AND              AGGREGATE SUB-BASE /
SUB BASE COMPACTED 90%                 ADJACENT SUB BASE.               DRAINAGE LAYER - 4" MINIMUM              IRRIGATION MAIN LINE
                                                                        DEPTH. COMPACT TO 95%                                                        SOIL CELL OUTLINE, TYP.
1" DIAMETER PVC PIPE DRAIN                                              MINIMUM, TYP.
HOLE PLACED 12" O.C.




                                                                                                                                                                                      PROJECT



                                                                                                                                                                                                    PROJECT
                                                                                                                                                                                                    NUMBER
A   IRRIGATION DRIP END VAULT CROSS SECTION                                                            B     IRRIGATION DRIP END VAULT CROSS SECTION
                                                                                                                                                                                SHEET NO.
                                                                                                                                                                                                        IRD-X2
      EXHIBIT P

INTENTIONALLY OMITTED
      EXHIBIT Q

INTENTIONALLY OMITTED
                         EXHIBIT R

ASSIGNEE’S COMMITMENT TO ABIDE BY DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT AND
                  CITY CONSENT TO TRANSFER
                                     CITY COUNCIL STAFF REPORT

MEETING DATE:                        August 13, 2025
REQUEST:                             A request to the City Council to review and approve the Market Center
                                     Master Development Agreement.
ADDRESS:                             2280 South State Street
PROPERTY OWNER:                      SSL Market Center QOZB LLC
APPLICANT:                           Blaser Ventures

SUMMARY
The Market Center Master Development Agreement (DA) outlines the terms under which development of
the Market Center project will occur and ensures delivery of the project’s key commitments including
affordability, site design, structure parking, and public beneﬁts. The DA is presented alongside the request
to rezone the property located at 2280 South State Street to the Housing and Transit (HT) Overlay.

The Market Center project will include four buildings, delivered in phases, and organized around a north-
south paseo and patron accessible amenities. The DA locks in several long-term commitments, including:
   • 478 deed-restricted affordable housing units at 60% AMI for 50 years
   • 332,000+ square feet of residential space
   • 19,200 square feet of retail/commercial space
   • 470 structured parking stalls, including 200 stalls open to the public daily
   • 80,581 square feet of open space including a rooftop event space, dog park, playground, and
       enhanced pedestrian areas
   • 648 square feet of bicycle storage
   • Sustainability measures aligned with Enterprise Green Communities standards

The DA allows the project to proceed phases, with clear sequencing requirements that link occupancy to
the completion of key infrastructure and public improvements.

RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends the City Council approve the Market Center Master Development Agreement between
the City and SSL Market Center QOZB, LLC. This recommendation is based on the analysis in this Staff
Report and is contingent upon the adoption of the associated ordinance enacting the HT Overlay District.

BACKGROUND
The 5.52-acre site is located within the City’s Downtown District, adjacent to Central Pointe Place, the
Parley’s Trail, and the S-Line. This is a key redevelopment site in an area where the City has long prioritized
transit-oriented growth, placemaking, and affordable housing. The Developer petitioned the City to rezone
the site to the HT Overlay in order to facilitate the Market Center mixed-use project. Key elements of the
project include structured parking, ground-floor retail space, and 100% affordable housing (60% AMI).

In accordance with the City’s Land Use and Development code, the HT Overlay requires a DA to ensure
that the site plan, building design, and public benefits are delivered as proposed.
ANALYSIS

   I.      RESIDENTIAL UNIT MIX

The DA includes provisions that ensure the project delivers on its commitment to provide 478 deed-
restricted affordable residential units. The unit mix includes a meaningful number of two and three-
bedroom units, which helps address family housing needs and broadens the population served. The units
will be distributed across buildings 1-3 as follows:

                 UNITY TYPE         Building 1     Building 2    Building 3     TOTAL
                 Studio             10             21            5              36
                 One Bedroom        128            79            41             248
                 Two Bedroom        81             25            24             130
                 Three Bedroom      36             13            25             64
                 Total Units        255            138           85             478




Affordability is enforced through deed restrictions and the Participation Agreement, which governs
ongoing compliance and reporting.

   II.     PUBLIC ACCESS & AMENITIES

The DA also secures meaningful access to resident and patron amenities. As part of Building 1, the
Developer commits to providing a rooftop community event space. The Development Agreement outlines
the parameters for which the public can access the public amenity.

The structured parking garage will include 200 stalls available to the public every day, with the ﬁrst two
hours free of charge. Additional public beneﬁts include a north-south paseo, integrated public art,
dedicated bicycle parking, and a range of streetscape improvements designed to create an active,
pedestrian-oriented environment. A key feature of the project is a landmark neon rooftop sign, designed to


                                                    2
serve as an iconic visual element that reinforces the City’s identity, aids in wayﬁnding, and helps deﬁne the
character of Downtown South Salt Lake.

   III.    PHASED DELIVERY AND ENFORCEMENT

To ensure the project is built in an orderly and predictable manner, the DA establishes a four-phase
development schedule. Each phase is tied to speciﬁc building milestones, infrastructure improvements,
and public realm enhancements. Key site improvements must be completed before a Certiﬁcate of
Occupancy can be issued for the associated phase. Vertical construction on subsequent phases may not
proceed until the prior phases has satisﬁed its completion requirements. A Master Owners Association will
be established to oversee and maintain shared infrastructure, including landscaped areas, public walkways,
and amenities.

   IV.     DESIGN, MATERIALS, & QUALITY

Design quality is also addressed in detail. Each building must comply with architectural standards that
govern height, articulation, materials, and active ground-ﬂoor uses. The DA incorporates speciﬁc design
elements such as glazing minimum, façade modulation, and pedestrian-oriented frontages that align with
the City’s design expectations. All buildings are required to meet the 2020 Enterprise Green Communities
criteria, which include performance-based standards for energy efﬁciency, indoor air quality, sustainable
materials, and EV charging.

   V.      CONTROLS & OVERSIGHT

Finally, the DA places clear boundaries on future changes to the project. The Developer is required to
maintain control over the development unless a proposed transfer of rights is reviewed and approved by
the City. Any successor must demonstrate experience and ﬁnancial capacity equal to or greater than that of
the current development team. The City retains enforcement rights throughout the term of the Agreement
to ensure long-term compliance with the terms related to affordability, phasing, design, and public access.

ATTACHMENTS

Attachment 1: Resolution and Form of Development Agreement




                                                      3
                                  ORDINANCE NO. 2025-____

AN ORDINANCE OF THE SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL TO AMEND THE
SOUTH SALT LAKE ZONING MAP FROM DOWNTOWN DISTRICT TO HOUSING
AND TRANSIT OVERLAY DISTRICT FOR THE PROPERTY LOCATED AT 2280
SOUTH STATE STREET, SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

       WHEREAS, The South Salt Lake City Council (the “City Council”) is authorized to
enact and amend ordinances establishing land use regulations within the City of South Salt Lake
(the “City”);
         WHEREAS, on May 29, 2024, the Redevelopment Agency of South Salt Lake City (the
RDA) sold 5.526 acres of land on State Street, immediately south of the S-Line, and within the
Market Station Urban Renewal Project Area (the Property), to SSL Market Center QOZB,
LLCA, a Delaware limited liability company registered to do business in the state of Utah (the
Owner) pursuant to a Purchase and Sale Agreement and Escrow Instructions dated April 25,
2024 (the Purchase and Sale Agreement) and pursuant to a certain preapplication vision of an
architecturally appealing mixed-use design that is full of affordable housing benefits and both
artistic and public participation details that are proposed to serve as a landmark project entrance
to the Downtown planning area;
         WHEREAS, the Purchase and Sale Agreement contemplated that the RDA and the
Owner would enter into a Tax Increment Participation Agreement dated May 29, 2024, to
encourage the Owner to develop, construct, own, and operate a mixed-use, transit-oriented,
project with specific attributes, such as: 1) up to 475 residential units, of which at least 400 units
are deed restricted as “affordable” for a period of at least 10 years and at least 30% of the
residential units are 2 bedroom, or larger; 2) 470 parking stalls, of which at least 400 stalls shall
be located within an on-site, parking structure, a large number of which will be accessible by the
public; 3) at least 20,000 square feet of commercial floor area, with an average aggregate rental
rate during the first 5 years following completion of the commercial floor area within the project
of no more than eighty percent (80%) of the fair market rental rate charged for comparable retail
space within the Salt Lake metropolitan area; 4) at least 2,500 square feet of 5th floor rooftop
retail floor area that is open to residents of the project, as well as the public; and 5) significant
additional landscaping, public art features, and on-site community amenities;
       WHEREAS, on July 9, 2025 the Owner and the RDA entered into an Amended and
Restated Tax Increment Participation Agreement to revise the parties’ commitments to encourage
the Owner to develop, construct, own, and operate a mixed-use, transit-oriented, project, the
residential component of which would be 100% affordable units, with 470 parking stalls, of
which at least 400 stalls shall be located within an on-site, parking structure, a large number of
which will be accessible by the public; 3) at least 20,000 square feet of commercial floor area,
with an average aggregate rental rate during the first 5 years following completion of the
commercial floor area within the project of no more than eighty percent (80%) of the fair market
rental rate charged for comparable retail space within the Salt Lake metropolitan area; 4) at least
2,500 square feet of rooftop retail floor area that is open to residents of the project, as well as to
the public; and 5) significant additional landscaping, public art features, and on-site community
amenities;
        WHEREAS, while the proposed project has been appealing to all, the petitioner’s
proposed mixed-use design did not specifically conform to certain provisions of the South Salt
Lake Zoning Land and Development Code, nor the standards articulated in the Downtown South
Salt Lake Zoning Ordinance and Design Standards; and
        WHEREAS, the Owner and City staff have negotiated, the City Council has approved,
and the parties have executed a project-specific Development Agreement, consistent with the
City’s expectations for the petitioner’s proposed project, to ensure that the parties agree about
and are committed to the important aspects of the proposed project prior to modifications to the
City’s land use regulations that would be authorized by this ordinance;
       WHEREAS, the owner of the property located at 2280 South State Street petitioned the
City Council for approval of a Zoning Map Amendment to the newly created Housing & Transit
Overlay District; and
        WHEREAS, the property is privately owned and will be developed into a mixed-use
project known as Market Center; and
       WHEREAS, on June 20, 2025, public notice was posted to the property and notices mailed
pursuant to the requirements of Title 17 of the South Salt Lake Municipal Code and Utah Code
10-9a-205; and
       WHEREAS, the South Salt Lake City Council is authorized to enact and amend ordinance
governing the City of South Salt Lake; and
       WHEREAS, on July 3, 2025, the Planning Commission held a properly noticed public
hearing, where the public had the opportunity to be heard on amending the South Salt Lake Zoning
Map from Downtown District to Housing & Transit Overlay District for the property located at
2280 South State Street; and
       WHEREAS, on May 14, 2025, the City Council discussed the Zoning Map Amendment
during a work meeting; and
       WHEREAS, on July 9, 2025, the City Council reviewed the recommendation to approve
the Zoning Map Amendment from the Planning Commission, considered the input from the public,
ensured consistency with the General Plan and goals established by the City, and determined the
Zoning Map Amendment is in the best interest of the City; and
       WHEREAS, the Zoning Map Amendment is consistent with the following purposes of the
Utah Municipal Land Use, Development, and Management Act (LUDMA) Section 10-9a-102
Purposes – General Land Use Authority:
           1. The purposes of this chapter are to:
                 a. Provide for the health, safety, and welfare;
                 b. Promote the prosperity;
                  c. Improve the morals, peace, good order, comfort, convenience, and
                     aesthetics of each municipality and each municipality’s present and future
                     inhabitants and businesses;
                  d. Protect the tax base;
                  e. Secure economy in government expenditures;
                  f. Foster the State’s agricultural and other industries;
                  g. Protect both urban and non-urban development;
                  h. Provide fundamental fairness in land use regulation;
                  i. Facilitate orderly growth and allow growth in a variety of housing types;
                     and,
                  j. Protect property values.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of the City of South Salt Lake
as follows:
SECTION I. APPROVAL: The South Salt Lake City Zoning Map for the property located at
2280 South State Street is amended from Downtown District to Housing & Transit Overlay
District, as shown in Exhibit A, which is incorporated herein by this reference, and is subject to
the following Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Conditions of Approval:
Findings of fact:
   1. The subject property is located at 2280 South State Street and includes approximately 5.52
      acres.
   2. The property is in the Downtown District – Station Subdistrict and is vacant.
   3. The Applicant proposes a Zoning Map amendment to change the property’s designation
      from Downtown to Housing & Transit Overlay to facilitate the Market Center
      Development, a mixed-use, transit-oriented project.
   4. The proposed Development includes 478 affordable residential units (100% at 60% AMI),
      ground-floor commercial space, structured parking with publicly accessible spaces, and a
      variety of public and private amenities.
   5. The proposed Zoning Map amendment aligns with the South Salt Lake General Plan, which
      designates the Downtown as a regional mixed-use center and encourages transit-connected,
      walkable, and equitable Development.
   6. The project location is within close proximity to the S-Line Streetcar, TRAX, UTA bus
      routes, and the Parley’s Trail, making it well-suited for transit-oriented development.
   7. The property satisfies the minimum size requirement of five acres for the HT Overlay
      District and complies with height, setback, and other applicable Development standards,
      subject to the Development Agreement.
   8. A Development Agreement will be executed between the City and the Applicant, binding
      current and future owners to the approved design, affordability commitments, and public
      benefit provisions.
   9. The Planning Commission previously recommended adoption of the HT Overlay District
      on June 19, 2025, and the City Council considered its adoption on July 9, 2025.
Conclusions of Law:
  1. The Zoning Map Amendment request is consistent with the South Salt Lake General Plan
      and Title 17 Land Use and Development.
  2. The Zoning Map Amendment is consistent with applicable state law.
   3. The Zoning Map Amendment furthers the purposes of Utah Code § 10-9a-102(1).
Conditions of Approval:
   1. Approval of the Zoning Map Amendment shall not take effect until the Development
      Agreement has been fully executed by the Developer and the City Council and has been
      recorded with the Salt Lake County Recorder’s Office.
   2. Any future retail use within the Market Center project shall comply with the Land Use
      Matrix as found in South Salt Lake Municipal Code 17.03.010.

SECTION II. EFFECTIVE DATE: This ordinance shall become effective when all of the
following have occurred: 1) upon the Mayor’s signature and publication, or after fifteen (15) days
of transmission to the office of the Mayor if neither approved nor disapproved by the Mayor; 2)
publication; and 3) when the Development Agreement between the City and the Owner has been
fully executed and recorded with the Salt Lake County Recorder’s Office.

                               (signatures on the following page)
DATED this ______ day of July 2025.



                                         BY THE CITY COUNCIL:

                                         ____________________________________
                                         Sharla Bynum, Council Chair

ATTEST:
____________________________________
Ariel Andrus, City Recorder


City Council Vote as Recorded:

       Huff          ______
       Thomas        ______
       Bynum         ______
       Mitchell      ______
       Sanchez       ______
       Williams      ______
       deWolfe       ______


Transmitted to the Mayor’s office on this _____ day of ________________________ 2025.


       ______________________________
       Ariel Andrus, City Recorder



MAYOR’S ACTION: ________________________



       Dated this _________ day of __________________________________, 2025.



                                         ____________________________________
                                         Cherie Wood, Mayor

ATTEST:

____________________________________
Ariel Andrus, City Recorder
                                                  EXHIBIT A

The area outlined in red, currently zoned Downtown District will be amended to Housing & Transit Overlay District
on the South Salt Lake Zoning Map as shown below:

Existing Zoning Map




Proposed Zoning Map
                                    CITY COUNCIL STAFF REPORT

MEETING DATE:               August 13, 2025
PROJECT NUMBER:             ZC25-0004
REQUEST:                    A petition to the City Council for a zoning map amendment to rezone the
                            property located at 2280 South State Street from the Downtown Land Use
                            District to the Housing & Transit Overlay Land Use District.
ADDRESS:                    2280 South State Street
PROPERTY OWNER:             SSL Market Center QOZB LLC
APPLICANT:                  Blaser Ventures

SUMMARY
The Applicant, Blaser Ventures, requests the City Council amend the zoning map for two parcels located at
2280 South State Street, changing the designation from Downtown (DT) to Housing & Transit (HT) Overlay.

The subject property is bordered by Main Street to the West, Central Pointe Place to the north, State Street
to the east, and Haven Avenue to the south. These parcels are part of the proposed Market Center
Development, a mixed-use project currently under review by Planning Staff.




On June 19, 2025, the Planning Commission unanimously recommended that the City Council adopt the
new Housing & Transit Overlay District (Staff Report; Meeting Minutes, p. 27). On July 9, 2025, the City
Council adopted an Ordinance enacting the HT Overlay District (Staff Report; Meeting Minutes, p. 6). This
request to amend the zoning map represents the ﬁnal entitlement required for the Applicant to move
forward with Development.
                                                     1
On July 3, 2025, the Planning Commission held a public hearing and reviewed the proposed zone change
(Staff Report; Draft Meeting Minutes). The Planning Commission forwarded a unanimous recommendation
of approval for the Council’s consideration.

RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends the City Council approve an amendment to the zoning map for 2280 South State Street
from DT to HT Overlay. This recommendation is based on the analysis and ﬁndings outlined in the staff
report.

   CURRENT ZONING            EXISTING USE         SURROUNDING ZONING               PROPOSED USES
                                                 North: Master Planned Mixed
                                                             Use
   Downtown – Station                                 South: Downtown           Mixed-Use, Multi-Family
                                 Vacant
      Subdistrict                                   East: East Streetcar &          Development
                                                     Commercial Corridor
                                                       West: Downtown




                                                  2
BACKGROUND
The South Salt Lake General Plan envisions a vibrant, walkable, and transit-connected Downtown that
provides a diverse range of housing and employment opportunities. As the City continues to grow, there is
an increasing need to support redevelopment efforts that align with regional transit investments and City’s
goals for urban design (e.g., mixed-use, walkability, human-scale, transit focused, etc.).

The subject property, located at 2280 South State Street, is in the Downtown District’s Station Subdistrict,
as seen in the image below. The site is approximately 5.52 acres in size and is bordered by:
    • North – S-Line/Parley’s Trail/Central Pointe Place
    • East – State Street
    • South – Haven Avenue
    • West – Main Street




The purpose of the HT Overlay District is intended to promote the redevelopment of Downtown South Salt
Lake in a manner that supports the goals of the General Plan. By encouraging transit-oriented
development, the Overlay seeks to reinvigorate the City’s commercial core and attract a vibrant residential
population.

The following image shows the proposed Zoning Map amendment (also see Exhibit A):
Applying the HT Overlay to this site will facilitate the development of the proposed Market Center project.
The proposed mixed-use project will include:
   • 478 affordable residential units (60% AMI)
   • Ground-ﬂoor commercial space
   • Structured parking with publicly accessible parking spaces
   • A combination of public and private amenities designed to activate the streetscape and enhance
       the urban environment

The proposed Development will strengthen the City’s vision for a dynamic Downtown centered around
high-quality design, access to transit, and equitable access to varied housing opportunities.

LAND USE AUTHORITY

   I.      CITY COUNCIL AUTHORITY

2.08.060. Powers and Duties.
   c. The City Council shall have the power to pass resolutions and ordinances concerning matters such
       as:
         5. Zoning and building regulations.

   II.     PLANNING COMMISSION AUTHORITY

The Planning Commission is the recommending body for amendments to the Land Use Map and the City
Council is the Land Use Authority for amendments to the Land Use Map.

17.11.010. Establishment and Duties of Planning Commission
 K. Responsibilities.
            1. The Planning Commission makes recommendations to the City Council for:
                    a. The general plan and amendments to the general plan;
                    b. The Land Use Map, and amendments to the Land Use Map;
                    c. Amendments to land use ordinances;
                    d. Proposed Application processes and the delegation of power under the land use
                       ordinance.

     III.      PLANNING COMMISSION REVIEW

Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-502. Preparation and adoption of land use regulation states:
   1. A planning commission shall:
         a. Provide notice as required by Subsection 10-9a-205(1)(a) and, if applicable, Subsection 10-
             9a-205(4);
         b. Hold a public hearing on a proposed land use regulation;
         c. If applicable, consider each written objection ﬁled in accordance with Subsection 10-9a-
             205(4) prior to the public hearing; and
         d. i) review and recommend to the legislative body a proposed land use regulation that
             represents the planning commission’s recommendation for regulating the use and
             development of land within all or any part of the area of the municipality; and
             ii) forward to the legislative body all objections ﬁled in accordance with Subsection 19-9a-
             205(4).

EXISTING SITE CONDITIONS
The following images, taken from Google Earth, show the site’s existing conditions:




Figure 1: Aerial view looking northeastward
Figure 2: Looking northwestward from State Street and Haven Avenue




Figure 3: Looking westward from State Street




Figure 4: Looking southward along the S-Line/Central Pointe Place
Figure 5: Looking eastward from Main Street


ANAYLSIS

      I.      GENERAL PLAN CONSIDERATIONS

The South Salt Lake General Plan was adopted in 2021 and directs the development and growth of the
City through goals and strategies that support the City’s community and economic values. Additionally, the
General Plan identiﬁes the neighborhoods of South Salt Lake, including Downtown. The General Plan
distinguishes the Downtown Neighborhood as a regional mixed-use center. 1 The following goals and
strategies align with the purpose of amending the zoning of 2280 South State Street to the HT Overlay:

•     The General Plan promotes enhanced connectivity within neighborhoods (Transportation Goal 1).
•     The General Plan further directs support for utilizing zoning tools that promote quality, neighborhood-
      oriented development and revitalization (Economic Development Goal 1, Strategy 3).

This site is a key area for redevelopment and reinvestment in the Downtown. Amending the zoning to the
HT Overlay District ensures the continued evolution of Downtown South Salt Lake in alignment with the
goals of the General Plan.

      II.     HOUSING & TRANSIT OVERLAY DISTRICT REQUIREMENTS

The following table outlines the Development standards for the HT Overlay:
 STANDARD                                    ANALYSIS OF PROPOSAL
 Uses: No Building, Structure, Site, or land A Multi-Family Dwelling is a permitted use in the HT
 shall be used or developed except in        Overlay. Any future retail use within the Market Center
 accordance with the adopted Land Use        project shall comply with the Land Use Matrix.
 Matrix. 2

    Five Acre Minimum Development Area             Proposal complies – 2280 South State Street contains 5.52
                                                   acres.

    Average Building Height for the                Proposal Complies – The proposed Market Center project
    Development Exceeding 50 Feet                  will have four buildings. The proposed average building
                                                   height is approximately 55’- 4¾”.


1
    South Salt Lake General Plan 2040, p. 18-19.
2
    Land Use and Development § 17.03.010
                                               Building 1: 68’ - 9”
                                               Building 2: 58’ - 11”
                                               Building 3: 65’ - 5“
                                               Building 4: 28’ - 6“
                                               AVERAGE: 55’ - 4¾”

 Setbacks as Required by Chapter 17.07         Proposal Complies – The underlying Downtown District
                                               requires ﬁve-foot Front Setbacks. The Applicant’s proposed
                                               site plan complies with this requirement.

 Minimum Number of Units: 50/acre              Proposal Complies – The Applicant proposes 86.6 units
                                               per acre.

 Development Agreement                         See Analysis Section III.


   III.    DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT

Before the HT Overlay can be applied to the subject property, the Applicant is required to enter into a
Development Agreement with the City. This agreement outlines the speciﬁc attributes of the proposed
development, including design standards, public beneﬁts, and key commitments, ensuring that both
current and future property owners are bound to the approved project scope.

The proposed Market Center project supports the City’s broader goals for Downtown revitalization.
However, certain elements of the project vary from the current Land Use and Development Code as well as
the Downtown Zoning Ordinance and Design Standards. In response to City feedback, the Applicant has
reﬁned the project’s design to better align with long-term planning objectives. These areas include
enhanced public access, reﬁned amenity programing, and improved overall integration with the
surrounding area.

To guarantee the project is delivered as proposed, the Development Agreement serves as the primary
mechanism for securing critical priorities, including:
   • High-quality urban design
   • A mix of residential and commercial uses
   • Meaningful public amenities
   • Long-term affordable housing

The ﬁnal agreement ensures the proposed development contributes meaningfully to the City’s vision for a
dynamic, transit-oriented, and livable Downtown.

   IV.     PROXIMITY TO TRANSIT

2280 South State Street is ideally located to support transit-oriented development. It is within close
proximity to the S-Line Streetcar and Parley’s Trail. There is also immediate vehicle access to I-80 and I-15
via State Street. This location offers strong multimodal connectivity, with access to TRAX, UTA bus routes,
and active transportation infrastructure. Furthermore, this Development will complete a critical missing
section of the Parley’s Trail along Central Pointe Place.

The HT Overlay is speciﬁcally designed to encourage higher-density, mixed-use development in areas
served by transit. The proposed Market Center project advances this goal by concentrating housing and
commercial uses in a walkable, transit-rich environment. The project’s design incorporates publicly
accessible parking, ground-ﬂoor activation, and enhanced pedestrian access, all of which support a more
sustainable urban form and reduce reliance on single-occupancy vehicles. The inclusion of a public parking
structure further supports shared mobility while minimizing the need for surface parking, consistent with
best planning practices.

This rezone enables a development pattern that leverages signiﬁcant public investment through HTRZ
funding and aligns with long-standing planning goals for a vibrant, connected Downtown.

   V.      AFFORDABLE HOUSING

A central feature of the proposed Market Center project is the Applicant’s commitment to affordability. The
development will provide 100% or 478 affordable residential units at 60% AMI, signiﬁcantly expanding
access to housing for low and moderate-income households within the Downtown core. The unit mix varies
by building, but the overall project offers studio, one-bedroom, two-bedroom, and three-bedroom units.
These units represent a substantial contribution to meeting the City’s housing needs and are consistent
with the General Plan’s goals of promoting housing diversity and affordability near transit and employment
centers.

With 100% of the residential units designated affordable, the proposed Development helps address the
regional housing affordability gap, reduce displacement of current residents, and ensures that more
residents can live near transit and employment opportunities.

Long-term affordability commitments through the Applicant’s funding sources (50 years) provides beneﬁts
for future generations. The rezoning to HT Overlay supports the delivery of affordable housing that is
critical to creating a more inclusive and affordable Downtown.

PUBLIC NOTICE
On June 20, 2025, Planning Staff provided notice to affected entities as required by Utah Code 10-9a-205.
Notice was also posted at City Hall and on the Utah Public Notice Website. Staff did not receive any public
input prior to publishing this report.

STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends the City Council approve an ordinance amendment to the zoning map for the property
located at 2280 South State Street from Downtown to Housing & Transit Overlay, with the Following
Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Conditions of Approval:

Findings of Fact:
   1. The subject property is located at 2280 South State Street and includes approximately 5.52 acres.
   2. The property is in the Downtown District – Station Subdistrict and is vacant.
   3. The Applicant proposes a Zoning Map amendment to change the property’s designation from
       Downtown to Housing & Transit Overlay to facilitate the Market Center Development, a mixed-use,
       transit-oriented project.
   4. The proposed Development includes 478 affordable residential units (100% at 60% AMI), ground-
       ﬂoor commercial space, structured parking with publicly accessible spaces, and a variety of public
       and private amenities.
   5. The propose Zoning Map amendment aligns with the South Salt Lake General Plan, which
       designates the Downtown as a regional mixed-use center and encourages transit-connected,
       walkable, and equitable Development.
   6. The project location is within close proximity to the S-Line Streetcar, TRAX, UTA bus routes, and the
       Parley’s Trail, making it a strong candidate for transit-oriented development.
   7. The property satisﬁes the minimum size requirement of ﬁve acres for the HT Overlay District and
       complies with height, setback, and other applicable Development standards, subject to the
       Development Agreement.
   8. A Development Agreement will be executed between the City and the Applicant, binding current
       and future owners to the approved design, affordability commitments, and public beneﬁt
       provisions.
   9. The Planning Commission previously recommended adoption of the HT Overlay District on June
       19, 2025, and the City Council considered its adoption on August 8, 2025.
   10. All items of the Staff Report.

Conclusions of Law:
   1. The Zoning Map Amendment request is consistent with the South Salt Lake General Plan and Title
      17 Land Use and Development.
   2. The Zoning Map Amendment is consistent with applicable state law.
   3. The Zoning Map Amendment furthers the purposes of Utah Code § 10-9a-102(1).

Conditions of Approval:
   1. Approval of the Zoning Map Amendment shall not take effect until the Development Agreement
      has been fully executed by the Developer and the City Council and has been recorded with the Salt
      Lake County Recorder’s Ofﬁce.
   2. Any future retail use within the Market Center project shall comply with the Land Use Matrix as
      found in § 17.03.010.

CITY COUNCIL OPTIONS:

Option 1: Approval

Move to approve the ordinance for an amendment to the Zoning Map for the property located at 2280
South State Street from Downtown to Housing & Transit Overlay, based on the Findings of Fact,
Conclusions of Law, and Conditions of Approval as enumerated on the record.

Option 2: Denial

Move to deny the ordinance for an amendment to the Zoning Map for the property located at 2280 South
State Street from Downtown to Housing & Transit Overlay, based on the Findings of Fact and Conclusions
of Law stated on the record.

Option 3: Continuance

Move to table the decision on the ordinance for an amendment to the Zoning Map for the property
located at 2280 South State Street from Downtown to Housing & Transit Overlay to a date certain to allow
the Applicant and Staff time to respond to speciﬁc inquiries or concerns raised by the City Council or to
allow the City Council more time to consider the proposal.

ATTACHMENTS
Attachment 1: Ordinance and Associated Exhibits
                                  ORDINANCE NO. 2025-____

AN ORDINANCE OF THE SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL TO AMEND THE
SOUTH SALT LAKE ZONING MAP FROM DOWNTOWN DISTRICT TO HOUSING
AND TRANSIT OVERLAY DISTRICT FOR THE PROPERTY LOCATED AT 2280
SOUTH STATE STREET, SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

       WHEREAS, The South Salt Lake City Council (the “City Council”) is authorized to
enact and amend ordinances establishing land use regulations within the City of South Salt Lake
(the “City”);
         WHEREAS, on May 29, 2024, the Redevelopment Agency of South Salt Lake City (the
RDA) sold 5.526 acres of land on State Street, immediately south of the S-Line, and within the
Market Station Urban Renewal Project Area (the Property), to SSL Market Center QOZB,
LLCA, a Delaware limited liability company registered to do business in the state of Utah (the
Owner) pursuant to a Purchase and Sale Agreement and Escrow Instructions dated April 25,
2024 (the Purchase and Sale Agreement) and pursuant to a certain preapplication vision of an
architecturally appealing mixed-use design that is full of affordable housing benefits and both
artistic and public participation details that are proposed to serve as a landmark project entrance
to the Downtown planning area;
         WHEREAS, the Purchase and Sale Agreement contemplated that the RDA and the
Owner would enter into a Tax Increment Participation Agreement dated May 29, 2024, to
encourage the Owner to develop, construct, own, and operate a mixed-use, transit-oriented,
project with specific attributes, such as: 1) up to 475 residential units, of which at least 400 units
are deed restricted as “affordable” for a period of at least 10 years and at least 30% of the
residential units are 2 bedroom, or larger; 2) 470 parking stalls, of which at least 400 stalls shall
be located within an on-site, parking structure, a large number of which will be accessible by the
public; 3) at least 20,000 square feet of commercial floor area, with an average aggregate rental
rate during the first 5 years following completion of the commercial floor area within the project
of no more than eighty percent (80%) of the fair market rental rate charged for comparable retail
space within the Salt Lake metropolitan area; 4) at least 2,500 square feet of 5th floor rooftop
retail floor area that is open to residents of the project, as well as the public; and 5) significant
additional landscaping, public art features, and on-site community amenities;
              WHEREAS, while the proposed project has been appealing to all, the petitioner’s
proposed mixed-use design did not specifically conform to certain provisions of the South Salt
Lake Zoning Land and Development Code, nor the standards articulated in the Downtown South
Salt Lake Zoning Ordinance and Design Standards; and
        WHEREAS, the Owner and City staff have negotiated, the City Council has approved,
and the parties have executed a project-specific Development Agreement, consistent with the
City’s expectations for the petitioner’s proposed project, to ensure that the parties agree about
and are committed to the important aspects of the proposed project prior to modifications to the
City’s land use regulations that would be authorized by this ordinance;
       WHEREAS, the owner of the property located at 2280 South State Street petitioned the
City Council for approval of a Zoning Map Amendment to the newly created Housing & Transit
Overlay District; and
        WHEREAS, the property is privately owned and will be developed into a mixed-use
project known as Market Center; and
       WHEREAS, on June 20, 2025, public notice was posted to the property and notices mailed
pursuant to the requirements of Title 17 of the South Salt Lake Municipal Code and Utah Code
10-9a-205; and
       WHEREAS, the South Salt Lake City Council is authorized to enact and amend
ordinances governing the City of South Salt Lake; and
       WHEREAS, on July 3, 2025, the Planning Commission held a properly noticed public
hearing, where the public had the opportunity to be heard on amending the South Salt Lake Zoning
Map from Downtown District to Housing & Transit Overlay District for the property located at
2280 South State Street; and
       WHEREAS, on May 14, 2025, the City Council discussed the Zoning Map Amendment
during a work meeting; and
       WHEREAS, on August 13, 2025, the City Council reviewed the recommendation to
approve the Zoning Map Amendment from the Planning Commission, considered the input from
the public, ensured consistency with the General Plan and goals established by the City, and
determined the Zoning Map Amendment is in the best interest of the City; and
       WHEREAS, the Zoning Map Amendment is consistent with the following purposes of the
Utah Municipal Land Use, Development, and Management Act (LUDMA) Section 10-9a-102
Purposes – General Land Use Authority:
           1. The purposes of this chapter are to:
                 a. Provide for the health, safety, and welfare;
                 b. Promote the prosperity;
                 c. Improve the morals, peace, good order, comfort, convenience, and
                     aesthetics of each municipality and each municipality’s present and future
                     inhabitants and businesses;
                 d. Protect the tax base;
                 e. Secure economy in government expenditures;
                 f. Foster the State’s agricultural and other industries;
                 g. Protect both urban and non-urban development;
                 h. Provide fundamental fairness in land use regulation;
                 i. Facilitate orderly growth and allow growth in a variety of housing types;
                     and,
                 j. Protect property values.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of the City of South Salt Lake
as follows:
SECTION I. APPROVAL: The South Salt Lake City Zoning Map for the property located at
2280 South State Street is amended from Downtown District to Housing & Transit Overlay
District, as shown in Exhibit A, which is incorporated herein by this reference, and is subject to
the following Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Conditions of Approval:
Findings of fact:
   1. The subject property is located at 2280 South State Street and includes approximately 5.52
      acres.
   2. The property is in the Downtown District – Station Subdistrict and is vacant.
   3. The Applicant proposes a Zoning Map amendment to change the property’s designation
      from Downtown to Housing & Transit Overlay to facilitate the Market Center
      Development, a mixed-use, transit-oriented project.
   4. The proposed Development includes 478 affordable residential units (100% at 60% AMI),
      ground-floor commercial space, structured parking with publicly accessible spaces, and a
      variety of public and private amenities.
   5. The proposed Zoning Map amendment aligns with the South Salt Lake General Plan, which
      designates the Downtown as a regional mixed-use center and encourages transit-connected,
      walkable, and equitable Development.
   6. The project location is within close proximity to the S-Line Streetcar, TRAX, UTA bus
      routes, and the Parley’s Trail, making it well-suited for transit-oriented development.
   7. The property satisfies the minimum size requirement of five acres for the HT Overlay
      District and complies with height, setback, and other applicable Development standards,
      subject to the Development Agreement.
   8. A Development Agreement will be executed between the City and the Applicant, binding
      current and future owners to the approved design, affordability commitments, and public
      benefit provisions.
   9. The Planning Commission previously recommended adoption of the HT Overlay District
      on June 19, 2025, and the City Council considered its adoption on August 8, 2025.
Conclusions of Law:
  1. The Zoning Map Amendment request is consistent with the South Salt Lake General Plan
      and Title 17 Land Use and Development.
  2. The Zoning Map Amendment is consistent with applicable state law.
  3. The Zoning Map Amendment furthers the purposes of Utah Code § 10-9a-102(1).
Conditions of Approval:
   1. Approval of the Zoning Map Amendment shall not take effect until the Development
      Agreement has been fully executed by the Developer and the City Council and has been
      recorded with the Salt Lake County Recorder’s Office.
   2. Any future retail use within the Market Center project shall comply with the Land Use
      Matrix as found in South Salt Lake Municipal Code 17.03.010.

SECTION II. EFFECTIVE DATE: This ordinance shall become effective when all of the
following have occurred: 1) upon the Mayor’s signature and publication, or after fifteen (15) days
of transmission to the office of the Mayor if neither approved nor disapproved by the Mayor; 2)
publication; and 3) when the Development Agreement between the City and the Owner has been
fully executed and recorded with the Salt Lake County Recorder’s Office.
(signatures on the following page)
DATED this ______ day of August 2025.



                                         BY THE CITY COUNCIL:

                                         ____________________________________
                                         Sharla Bynum, Council Chair

ATTEST:
____________________________________
Ariel Andrus, City Recorder


City Council Vote as Recorded:

       Huff          ______
       Thomas        ______
       Bynum         ______
       Mitchell      ______
       Sanchez       ______
       Williams      ______
       deWolfe       ______


Transmitted to the Mayor’s office on this _____ day of ________________________ 2025.


       ______________________________
       Ariel Andrus, City Recorder



MAYOR’S ACTION: ________________________



       Dated this _________ day of __________________________________, 2025.



                                         ____________________________________
                                         Cherie Wood, Mayor

ATTEST:

____________________________________
Ariel Andrus, City Recorder
                                                  EXHIBIT A

The area outlined in red, currently zoned Downtown District will be amended to Housing & Transit Overlay District
on the South Salt Lake Zoning Map as shown below:

Existing Zoning Map




Proposed Zoning Map
                             RESOLUTION NO. R2025-___________

  A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY OF SOUTH SALT LAKE ADOPTING THE SALT LAKE
COUNTY MULTI- JURISDICTIONAL MULTI-HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN, AS REQUIRED
   BY THE FEDERAL DISASTER MITIGATION AND COST REDUCTION ACT OF 2000.



WHEREAS, President William J. Clinton signed H.R. 707, the Disaster Mitigation and Cost
Reduction Act of 2000 (the “Act”) into law on October 30, 2000 establishing a national disaster
hazard mitigation program; and

WHEREAS, to be eligible to receive Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) post-
disaster funds, the City must comply with the requirements of the Disaster Mitigation Act of
2000, including development of a Pre-Disaster Hazard Mitigation Plan in accordance with the
Act; and

WHEREAS, the Salt Lake County Multi-Jurisdictional Multi-Hazard Mitigation Plan, attached
to this Resolution as “Exhibit A,” has been prepared in accordance with FEMA requirements of
44 C.F.R. § 201.6 through cooperation of Salt Lake County’s Bureau of Emergency Management
and other local jurisdictions including the City of South Salt Lake (the “City”); and

WHEREAS, the City, which is located within Salt Lake County, has participated in the
preparation of the Salt Lake County Multi-Jurisdictional Multi-Hazard Mitigation Plan attached
hereto; and

WHEREAS, the South Salt Lake City Council (the “Council”) is concerned about mitigation of
potential losses of any natural disaster and seeking post-disaster relief funds in the event of a
natural disaster; and

WHEREAS, the Council finds that it is in the best interest of the City and the community to
adopt the Salt Lake County Multi-Jurisdictional Multi-Hazard Mitigation Plan as the City’s
Multi-Hazard Mitigation Plan; and

NOW, THEREFORE, be it resolved by the City Council of the City of South Salt Lake that:

   1. The City adopts the Salt Lake County Multi-Jurisdictional Multi-Hazard Mitigation Plan
      as the City’s Multi-Hazard Mitigation Plan, which is incorporated by this reference and
      attached hereto as Exhibit A, pursuant to the Act.

   2. The Council authorizes the Mayor to take any action necessary to formalize the City’s
      participation in and adoption of the plan, including acceptance of any changes made to
      the plan after its adoption.
APPROVED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of South Salt Lake, Utah,
on this _________ day of ______________, 2025.

                                          BY THE CITY COUNCIL:



                                          ______________________________
                                          Sharla Bynum, Council Chair



Council vote as recorded:

Bynum         ______
deWolfe       ______
Huff          ______
Mitchell      ______
Sanchez       ______
Thomas        ______
Williams      ______



ATTEST:




______________________________
Ariel Andrus, City Recorder
                           EXHIBIT A

Salt Lake County Multi-Jurisdictional Multi-Hazard Mitigation Plan
                                   SSL City Council Report
MEETING DATE: August 13, 2025
SUBJECT: Resolution to Adopt the updated Salt Lake County Mitigation Plan
SUBMITTED BY: Yasmin Abbyad, Emergency Management Coordinator

ACTION: Adopt the updated Salt Lake County Mitigation Plan and City of South Salt Lake Jurisdictional
Annex

WHY WE NEED TO PASS A RESOLUTION TO ADOPT:
The Hazard Mitigation Plan is required under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency
Assistance Act for local jurisdictions to be eligible for certain types of non-emergency disaster assistance
and hazard mitigation funding, including Building Resilient Infrastructure and Communities (BRIC)and
Public Assistance Hazard Mitigation grants.

This plan must be updated every five years according to federal guidelines. The previous Hazard
Mitigation Plan was adopted by the City of South Salt Lake in 2019, and expired in May 2025. It was
adopted by the Salt Lake County Council earlier this summer.

WHAT IS THE HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN:
The Hazard Mitigation Plan (HMP) is a comprehensive document that outlines our long-term strategy to
reduce damages and losses in a disaster. It identifies potential natural disasters, their risks, our
vulnerabilities and capabilities, and outlines future actions we plan to take to minimize their impact on
our city.

The process of updating the plan takes a significant amount of coordination, effort, and time. Salt Lake
County initiated this process in September of 2024 with the help of a contracted company. From
September to December, the plan was drafted and public feedback regarding local hazards was
collected. Final draft actions were completed from January to March 2025, and the draft was submitted
to Utah State Department of Emergency Management in April 2025 for review. FEMA is aware of the
current status of this plan update, and has asked local jurisdictions to obtain adoption resolutions to
expedite the process. The plan was adopted in July 2025 by the Salt Lake County Council.

RESOURCES:
    -   Salt Lake County Emergency Management has outlined a general plan overview [here].
    -   The Multi-Jurisdictional Hazard Mitigation Plan
            - Volume 1: County’s Plan
            -   Volume 2: SSL Annex P.1196
                                  ORDINANCE NO. 2025-_____


AN ORDINANCE OF THE SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL AMENDING CHAPTER
3.16 OF THE SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY MUNICIPAL CODE RELATED TO THE DISPOSAL
OF SURPLUS CITY PERSONAL PROPERTY.


       WHEREAS the South Salt Lake City Council (“City Council”) is authorized to enact and
amend ordinances to carry out certain government functions for the City of South Salt Lake
(“City”);
        WHEREAS the City is authorized, pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 10-8-2, to sell, convey,
or dispose of personal property for the benefit of the municipality and enacted Chapter 3.16 of the
South Salt Lake City Municipal Code for such purpose;
        WHEREAS the City Council has reviewed and considered proposed changes to Chapter
3.16 to more efficiently dispose of surplus city owned personal property and finds the changes to
be in the best interests of the City;
       NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the City Council of the City of South Salt
Lake as follows:
       Section 1.  Enactment. Chapter 3.16 of the South Salt Lake City Municipal Code is
hereby amended as outlined in Exhibit A, which is attached hereto and incorporated by this
reference.
        Section 2.     Severability. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion
of this ordinance is, for any reason, held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such provision shall be deemed a separate, distinct, and independent provision, and
such holding shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this ordinance.
       Section 3.      Conflict with Existing Ordinances, Resolutions, or Policies. To the extent
that any ordinances, resolutions, or policies of the City of South Salt Lake conflict with the
provisions of this ordinance, this ordinance shall prevail.
       Section 4.      Effective Date. This ordinance shall become effective upon Mayor’s
signature and publication, or after fifteen days of transmission to the office of the Mayor if neither
approved nor disapproved by the Mayor, and thereafter, publication.




                                  (Signatures on the following page.)
DATED this ______ day of __________, 2025.




                                             BY THE CITY COUNCIL:
                                             ____________________________________
                                             Sharla Bynum, Council Chair
ATTEST:
____________________________________
Ariel Andrus, City Recorder
City Council Vote as Recorded:
       Huff            ______
       Thomas          ______
       Bynum           ______
       Mitchell        ______
       Sanchez         ______
       DeWolfe         ______
       Williams        ______


Transmitted to the Mayor’s office on this _____ day of ________________________ 2025.

       ______________________________
       Ariel Andrus, City Recorder

MAYOR’S ACTION: ________________________


       Dated this _________ day of __________________________________, 2025.


                                             ____________________________________
                                             Cherie Wood, Mayor
ATTEST:
____________________________________
Ariel Andrus, City Recorder
Exhibit A:
                         Chapter 3.16 DISPOSAL OF SURPLUS PROPERTY
Sections:

3.16.010 Surplus property.
     City personal property that is so used, obsolete, depreciated, excess or is no longer necessary to current and
projected needs as to be unfit or undesirable for use or retention by the city may be declared “surplus property”.
Surplus property may be sold, exchanged or disposed of by the city as provided by Utah Code Ann. § 10-8-2 et. seq,
as amended. No provision of this chapter shall be construed to require or invalidate any sale, conveyance,
transaction, or transfer by the city, nor to vest rights of action of any kind against the city, its officers, agents and
employees.

3.16.020 Inventory of surplus property.
     Each Department head shall exercise supervision of all inventories of city personal property within the
control of or assigned to their departments. Each department head shall, at least annually, submit to the
Purchasing agent a list of all city property which the department head has determined is no longer useful or of
benefit to that department or the city.
      A.    The mayor, or his or her designee, shall review the list of property submitted by the department head,
            and then inspect, or cause to be inspected, the listed property to determine whether the property
            should be sold, transferred to another department, or otherwise disposed of pursuant to this policy.
            The mayor will then formulate and approve a final list of all surplus property to be disposed or
            transferred.
            1.    The final approved list will then be forwarded to all departments for review by the department
                  head to determine whether any items on the final list could be put to further use by that
                  department. Any requests by the department head for listed property will be made as described
                  in this chapter.
3.16.0320 Disposal of equipment and supplies—All property except real property and motor
vehiclessurplus personal property.
       Subject to this Chapter, the Purchasing agent may authorize the disposition of surplus personal property by
sale, lease, trade in, exchange, or destruction. Before equipment and supplies the disposal of surplus personal
property are sold by the city, the department head shall review the mayor's final list of surplus property for
equipment and supplies which could as efficiently and effectively be put to further use as new equipment and
supplies .certify in writing that the property is no longer of public use and the estimated value of such property
after having taken reasonable steps to determine the value of the property, by researching and performing an
informal market survey of such property, obtaining evaluations or appraisals by qualified and disinterested
appraisers, consulting with industry professionals or others with knowledge regarding any specialized or limited
use property or utilizing other professional publications or valuation services.
       The Purchasing agent shall authorize the disposition of surplus personal property in a method likely to
produce the highest and best return to the city, either through sale by auction by the city or by a third party, sale
by sealed bids, trade ins or exchanges, sale and advertisement through online classifieds or other fair, open and
lawful methods determined to produce the highest and best return, pursuant to existing state law, city policy and
as follows:
      A. When the value of the surplus property is considered negligible in relation to the time, labor and
         expense of selling, leasing, trading, transferring or conveying property, the Purchasing agent may
         authorize the destruction of the property.
     B.   All surplus property sold, exchanged, transferred or conveyed shall be “as is” with no express or implied
          warranties and all sales shall be final.
     C.   The disposal of surplus firearms shall comply with Utah Code Ann. § 24-3-101 et. seq., as amended and
          all applicable federal laws and regulations.
     D. When the surplus property contains equipment or components, software or data specific for city or
        government use only, the equipment, components, software and data must be removed prior to any
        transfer.
     E.   Local units of government may be given, but are not required to be given, a preference in the acquisition
          of the city’s surplus personal property.
     F.   All records of the disposition of surplus personal property shall be maintained in accordance with the
          city’s adopted retention schedules.
     A. When the department head determines that surplus property could be put to further use by that
     department, he or she shall notify the mayor in writing within ten days of receipt of the mayor's final
     approved list of surplus property of which surplus equipment and supplies the department requires, and
     include an explanation of the reasons for the department's need for such equipment and supplies.
     1. Upon receipt from the department heads of a request for equipment and supplies which could be put to
     further use by that department, the mayor will determine the priority in which specific requests from
     department heads should be granted, grant such requests as necessary, then have the equipment and
     supplies requested forwarded to the requesting department.
     B. Any equipment and supplies which cannot be put to further use by a department shall then be sold in the
     following manner:
     1. All surplus property sold by the city of South Salt Lake shall be sold "as is," with no express or implied
     warranties, and all sales of surplus property by the city will be final.
     a. Notice that all property sold by the city will be "as is" and that all sales are final shall be posted in a
     conspicuous place or in a conspicuous manner.
     2. A list of all remaining equipment and supplies will be sent to the city treasurer, who will then determine
     which equipment and supplies should be sold directly by the city, or through a company providing auction
     services.
     a. All equipment and supplies to be sold by an auction services company shall then, as directed by the
     treasurer, be forwarded to the company for immediate sale. The city treasurer shall ensure that the process
     employed by the auctions services company is open and fair.
                 b.     All equipment and supplies to be sold directly by the city will then be sold in an open, fair
                        manner, with adequate notice, and an open hearing and sale as determined and directed
                        by the city treasurer. Preference may be given to other government agencies when such
                        need for preference is provided in advance of any sale by the interested government
                        agency.

3.16.030 Disposal of motor vehicles.
      All motor vehicles determined to be surplus will be disposed of pursuant to the manner described above
with the following exceptions:
     A.    Police Vehicles. All police vehicles will, prior to the time when they are sold either by the city or an
           auction services company, be stripped of all emergency and other police equipment.
     B.    At the time of the sale of motor vehicles a minimum price will be established for each vehicle to be sold
           below which no bids will be accepted. Bids submitted for motor vehicles in excess of the established
           minimum price may be accepted.
(Ord. 96-29 § 2)


3.16.050 Disposal of surplus property which is of a specialized or limited use (specialty
         property).
     Property which has a specialized function, or limited to use by a particular industry or business may be
disposed of by the mayor or the mayor's designee as follows:
     A.    Together with the department head, industry professionals, or others with the knowledge and ability
           to designate the value of specialty property, the mayor shall establish a reasonable and fair value for
           specialty property.
           1.      Property valued at less than twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) may be negotiated and
                   sold directly by the mayor to other governmental entities or businesses.
           2.      Property valued at more than twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) shall be following notice
                   and hearing as described above.
(Ord. 96-29 § 4)
3.16.060 Miscellaneous policies and procedures.
      Trade-In of Surplus Property. The mayor may trade in surplus property when the mayor and the department
head determine that new property can be acquired by the city through trading of surplus property at a greater
value than selling the same property.
(Ord. 96-29 § 5)
                                SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY ATTORNEY’S OFFICE
                                            Staﬀ Report
                        TO:   Mayor and City Council
                        FROM: Brieanne Brass, Deputy City Attorney
                        DATE: 8/13/25
                        RE:   AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 3.16 OF THE SOUTH SALT LAKE
                              CITY MUNICIPAL CODE RELATED TO THE DISPOSAL OF SURPLUS
                              PERSONAL PROPERTY



Attached is a proposed Ordinance to amend Chapter 3.16 of the South Salt Lake City Municipal Code
(SSLC Code) related to the disposition of personal property owned by the City. This section of code was
enacted in the 90s and has not been amended to meet the needs of City staﬀ in addressing the
disposition of surplus property and presumably the property used and no longer used by staﬀ has
changed substantially over the past thirty years.

This section of the code is related to City owned personal property and does not address the purchase,
sale, lease or disposition of City owned real property, which is addressed in Chapter 3.14.

Chapter 3.12 is the purchasing and procurement code which identiﬁes and designates the city recorder
as the purchasing agent. Under 3.12.030, the purchasing agent has all the “rights powers, duties and
authority relating to the procurement of supplies, materials, and equipment services and the
management and control of warehousing, sale and disposal thereof” however, Chapter 3.16 designates
the city treasurer as the city personnel member overseeing the disposition of the surplus property.

Staﬀ is proposing to change Chapter 3.14 to make the purchasing agent the authority over the
disposition of surplus property, within the parameters set by ordinance and established policy guidelines
for consistency and more functionality.

Staﬀ is also proposing to add more options in Chapter 3.12, to address the disposition of surplus
property that has become so expended that the cost and resources to refurbish, trade, or sell is higher
than simply disposing of the property.

Staﬀ is proposing to expand the forums of the sale, trade or exchange of property and give the
purchasing agent, together with the department head, the ability to opt for the method that will result
in a higher and better return for the city.

If Council has any questions about the changes proposed, staﬀ can address them during the work session
or if the Council has further proposed changes, staﬀ can make changes as needed and directed.




cc:     City Recorder
                                   ORDINANCE NO. 2025-_____
AN ORDINANCE OF THE SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL AMENDING SECTION 3.11.010 OF THE
SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY MUNICIPAL CODE TO MODIFY ANIMAL SERVICES FEES.
       WHEREAS, The South Salt Lake City Council (the “City Council”) is authorized to enact
and amend ordinances establishing regulations related to the health, safety, and welfare of the
residents of the City of South Salt Lake (the “City”); and
       WHEREAS, the Animal Services Division of the South Salt Lake Neighborhoods
Department provides services to members of the public relating to the health and welfare of
animals and the community at large; and
       WHEREAS, Animal Services finds that adjustments need to be made to certain services it
provides, such as euthanasia and cremation services; and
       WHEREAS, certain technical corrections are needed to improve accuracy in the City’s
Consolidated Fee Schedule; and
        WHEREAS, the City Council finds that, after a review and assessment of the City’s costs
and needs, the Animal Services portion of the City’s consolidated fee schedule, codified in
South Salt Lake Municipal Code 3.11.010, should be updated to reflect the current economic
status of the City’s services and costs in maintenance and administration of the services
provided by the Animal Services Division of the South Salt Lake Neighborhoods Department;
and
        WHEREAS, the City Council hereby determines that amending section 3.11.010 of the
South Salt Lake Municipal Code to modify fees as shown in “Exhibit A,” which is attached hereto
and incorporated by this reference, is in the best interest of the health, safety, and welfare of
the residents of South Salt Lake City.
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the City Council of the City of South Salt Lake as
follows:
SECTION 1. Enactment. Section 3.11.010 is hereby amended, as attached hereto and
incorporated by reference in “Exhibit A.”
SECTION 2. Severability. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of
this ordinance is, for any reason, held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such provision shall be deemed a separate, distinct, and independent provision,
and such holding shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this ordinance.
SECTION 3. Conflict with Existing Ordinances, Resolutions, or Policies. To the extent that any
ordinances, resolutions, or policies of the City of South Salt Lake conflict with the provisions of
this ordinance, this ordinance shall prevail.
SECTION 4. Effective Date. This ordinance shall become effective upon Mayor’s signature
and publication, or after fifteen days of transmission to the office of the Mayor if neither
approved nor disapproved by the Mayor, and thereafter, publication.




                                              Page 1 of 5
DATED this ______ day of __________, 2025.
                                         BY THE CITY COUNCIL:
                                         ____________________________________
                                         Sharla Bynum, Council Chair
ATTEST:
____________________________________
Ariel Andrus, City Recorder


City Council Vote as Recorded:
       Huff          ______
       Thomas        ______
       Bynum         ______
       Mitchell      ______
       Sanchez       ______
       deWolfe       ______
       Williams      ______


Transmitted to the Mayor’s office on this _____ day of ________________________ 2025.


       ______________________________
       Ariel Andrus, City Recorder



MAYOR’S ACTION: ________________________


       Dated this _________ day of __________________________________, 2025.


                                         ____________________________________
                                         Cherie Wood, Mayor
ATTEST:
____________________________________
Ariel Andrus, City Recorder




                                         Page 2 of 5
Exhibit A:

                                  Chapter 3.11 CONSOLIDATED FEE SCHEDULE
Sections:

3.11.010 Animal Services.
A.      Licenses.

     Altered* Dog                                                              $30.00/year

     Altered Dog, Microchipped                                                 $25.00/year

     Altered* Dog—Senior citizen (65+)                                         $30.00 (lifetime license)

     Unaltered Dog                                                             $100.00/year

     Unaltered Dog—Senior citizen (65+)                                        $75.00 (lifetime license)

     Altered* Cat                                                              $30.00/year

     Altered Cat, Microchipped                                                 $20.00/year

     Altered* Cat—Senior citizen (65+)                                         $30.00 (lifetime license)

     Unaltered cat                                                             $50.00/year

     Unaltered cat—Senior citizen (65+)                                        $2030.00 (lifetime license)

     Ferret (rabies vaccination and microchip required)                        $30.00/year

     Vicious Animals (rabies vaccination and proof of                          $150.00/year
     liability insurance required)

     Service animal (Altered* )                                                $0.00 (lifetime license)

     Service animal (Unaltered* )                                              $30.00 (lifetime license)

     Late fee (license expired for more than 30 days)                          $10.00/month up to max. annual fee


              * Altered animals have been either spayed or neutered.




                                                                       Page 3 of 5
B.      Permits.

     Type of Permit                                                      Initial          Renewal

       Hobby/private cattery                                             $75.00           $30.00

       Urban poultry                                                     $75.00           $30.00

       Beehive                                                           $75.00           $30.00

       Kennel and Dog Boarding Business                                  $200.00          $75.00


C.      Adoptions.

     Dog (Altered, Microchipped, Vaccinated)                                                          $75.00

     Cat (Altered, Microchipped, Vaccinated)                                                          $40.00

     Small Animal (rabbit, guinea pig, bird, reptile, etc.)                                           $25.00


D.      Impounds.

     Dogs, cats, and large livestock (horse, cow, llama, goat, sheep, etc.):

       First impound                                                                     $100.00

       Second impound                                                                    $200.00

       Third impound                                                                     $300.00

       Fourth and each subsequent impound                                                $400.00

     Small livestock—Per animal (chicken, rabbit, etc.)                                  $50.00

     Boarding Fee for impounded animals                                                  $30.00/day

     Sterilization deposit                                                               $1500.00


E.      Surrender.

     Dog or cat—Altered, licensed, vaccinated and rabies certified                                    $50.00

     Dog or cat—Unaltered, unlicensed, unvaccinated or rabies non-certified dog or cat                $100.00

     Litter (2 or more unweaned animals)                                                              $300.00


F.      Services.

     Microchip                                                                                        $50.00 At
                                                                                                      City's cost

     Vaccination                                                                                      At City's cost




                                                          Page 4 of 5
     Sedation for Shelter Services                                   At City's cost

     Euthanasia                                                      $100.00

     Carcass Pickup—Current license                                  $25.00

     Carcass Pickup—No current license                               $100.00

     Carcass Disposal (no cremation)                                 $40.00

     Cremation (ashes returned, container not included)

       Individual (single animal)                                    $150.00

       Communal (different owners, combined ashes)                   $30.00


G.      Nuisance Animal.

     Animal Trap rental (per property, per rental period)            $25.00

     Animal Trap deposit (per trap, refundable upon return)          $50.00

     Trapped clearing/recovery (per trip)                            $25.00


H.      Citations.

     Animal Ordinance Violation

       First Violation                                               $50.00 100.00

       Second Violation                                              $100.00
                                                                     250.00

       Third and Subsequent Violation                                $200.00
                                                                     500.00

       Late payment fine per day                                     $25.00




                                                       Page 5 of 5
                                   ORDINANCE NO. 2025-_____
AN ORDINANCE OF THE SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL AMENDING SECTION 3.11.110 OF THE
SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY MUNICIPAL CODE TO MODIFY PARKS AND COMMUNITY CENTER FEES.
       WHEREAS, The South Salt Lake City Council (the “City Council”) is authorized to enact
and amend ordinances establishing regulations related to the health, safety, and welfare of the
residents of the City of South Salt Lake (the “City”); and
       WHEREAS, the Facilities Division of the South Salt Lake Neighborhoods Department and
the South Salt Lake Recreation Department provides services to members of the public through
management and use of certain City facilities for public recreation and general use; and
       WHEREAS, the City finds that adjustments need to be made to certain services it
provides, such as available facility space for public use and additional staff support options; and
       WHEREAS, certain technical corrections are needed to improve accuracy in the City’s
Consolidated Fee Schedule; and
       WHEREAS, the City Council finds that, after a review and assessment of the City’s costs
and needs, the Parks and Community Center fees portion of the City’s consolidated fee
schedule, codified in South Salt Lake Municipal Code 3.11.110, should be updated to reflect the
current economic status of the City’s services and costs in maintenance and administration of
the services provided at the City’s Parks and Community Centers; and
        WHEREAS, the City Council hereby determines that amending section 3.11.110 of the
South Salt Lake Municipal Code to modify fees as shown in “Exhibit A,” which is attached hereto
and incorporated by this reference, is in the best interest of the health, safety, and welfare of
the residents of South Salt Lake City.
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the City Council of the City of South Salt Lake as
follows:
SECTION 1. Enactment. Section 3.11.110 is hereby amended, as attached hereto and
incorporated by reference in “Exhibit A.”
SECTION 2. Severability. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of
this ordinance is, for any reason, held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such provision shall be deemed a separate, distinct, and independent provision,
and such holding shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this ordinance.
SECTION 3. Conflict with Existing Ordinances, Resolutions, or Policies. To the extent that any
ordinances, resolutions, or policies of the City of South Salt Lake conflict with the provisions of
this ordinance, this ordinance shall prevail.
SECTION 4. Effective Date. This ordinance shall become effective upon Mayor’s signature
and publication, or after fifteen days of transmission to the office of the Mayor if neither
approved nor disapproved by the Mayor, and thereafter, publication.
DATED this ______ day of __________, 2025.
                                         BY THE CITY COUNCIL:
                                         ____________________________________
                                         Sharla Bynum, Council Chair
ATTEST:
____________________________________
Ariel Andrus, City Recorder


City Council Vote as Recorded:
       Huff          ______
       Thomas        ______
       Bynum         ______
       Mitchell      ______
       Sanchez       ______
       deWolfe       ______
       Williams      ______


Transmitted to the Mayor’s office on this _____ day of ________________________ 2025.


       ______________________________
       Ariel Andrus, City Recorder



MAYOR’S ACTION: ________________________


       Dated this _________ day of __________________________________, 2025.


                                         ____________________________________
                                         Cherie Wood, Mayor
ATTEST:
____________________________________
Ariel Andrus, City Recorder
Exhibit A:

3.11.110 Parks and Community Centers.
      Individuals and Entities renting a City facility, or a portion of a City facility, are subject to the terms,
conditions, and fees detailed below and any other terms and conditions stated in City facility rental
applications/contracts and all other laws and City policies related to City Parks and Community Centers.
      A.    Resident Rate. The "resident" rate applies only in cases in which: (1) a person residing in the City of
            South Salt Lake schedules a facility for a private, personal, or family event; or (2) a business located in
            South Salt Lake schedules a facility for an employee social event. A person residing in the City or a
            business licensed in the City scheduling a facility for an entity/organization/institute event or function
            or for a business enterprise shall pay the "standard" rate.
      B.    Non-profit Rate. The "non-profit" rate applies only in cases where a non-profit entity schedules a
            facility for purposes that do not include fundraising or revenue generation for the entity. Any non-
            profit entity that schedules a facility for purposes that include fundraising shall pay the "standard" rate.
            Collecting a participation fee from those attending an event for the purpose of covering the cost of the
            event shall not be considered fundraising. Proof of non-profit 501(c)(3) status must be provided, such
            as a certificate issued by the state or the United States. Government agencies may receive the "non-
            profit" rate, upon request.
      C.    Deposits. Deposits must be paid at the time of booking and may be refunded subject to a post-event
            inspection. The City may retain all or part of a deposit when the event causes damage to property,
            additional costs for clean up or property restoration. In cases in which the deposit does not cover
            damage, additional labor, or other costs resulting from the event the entity renting the facility shall
            reimburse the City for all of the City's costs related to the repair and restoration of the damaged
            facility. If the event occupies the facility beyond the scheduled time, the deposit will be used to pay for
            additional time, in one-hour increments.
      D.    Insurance. All parties are required to demonstrate to the City adequate insurance coverage.
      E.    Security Service Fee. For large or high-risk events, or for large group rentals during evening hours after
            5 p.m. and weekends, security shall be required. The City shall evaluate event-related risks and require
            the City to provide security services at the costs detailed in this Title. A security plan may be required
            by the police department and is subject to approval by the police department.
      F.    After Hours Fee. Any person or organization that receives approval to use facilities under this Section
            after normal hours of operation shall pay an additional, non-refundable fee as outlined in this Title. An
            offer by an organization or person to pay this additional fee does not obligate the City to schedule after
            hours events.
      G.    Cancellation Fee: Events that are cancelled less than 14 days prior to rental date are subject to
            cancellation charge equal to booking deposit paid. Bookings not paid in full 14 days prior to rental date
            are subject to cancellation and cancellation charge.
      H.    Late Booking Fee Addition (1): Rentals must be confirmed and paid for a minimum of 14 days in
            advance. For rentals booked 7 to 13 days in advance, an additional twenty-five percent (25%) of the
            room rental fee will be charged. For rentals booked 3 to 6 days in advance, an additional fifty percent
            (50%) of the room rental fee will be charged. No bookings allowed less than 36 hours in advance.
      I.    Multi Booking Fee Reductions. A twenty-percent reduction in rental fees for a community center
            facility is authorized where the scheduling party schedules ten hours or more in any one calendar
            month. In such cases, the required fee must be paid in advance and will be non-refundable.
      J.    Multi Room/Facility Fee Reduction. A twenty percent reduction in cumulative rental fees may be
            granted for a renter that intends to use a group of rooms and/or facilities simultaneously for a large
            event. In such cases, the required fee must be paid in advance and will be non-refundable.
   K.     Community Parks.

Fitts Park Pavilions (per day)                           Standard     Non-Profit   Resident   Deposit

  Lions Pride Pavilion                                   $125.00      $100.00      $75.00     $200.00

  Spring Creek Pavilion*                                 $75.00       $60.00       $50.00     $100.00

  Wandamere Pavilion                                     $75.00       $50.00       $40.00     $100.00

  Mill Creek Pavilion**                                  $75.00       $50.00       $40.00     $100.00


          * Formerly known as Swire Pavilion
          ** Formerly known as Xango Pavilion



   L.     Community Centers.

South Salt Lake                            Hourly Rate                             Deposit    Setup Fee
Community Center

                                           Standard      Non-Profit   Resident

  Patio                                    $100.00       $75.00       $50.00       $100.00    $50.00

  Green Space                              $75.00        $50.00       $25.00       $100.00    N/A

  Auditorium                               $150.00       $100.00      $75.00       $500.00    $50.00

  Gymnasium                                $100.00       $50.00       $35.00       $500.00    $25.00

  Meeting Rooms                            $50.00        $35.00       $25.00       $200.00    $10.00
  101,110

  Class Rooms                              $75.00        $35.00       $25.00       $100.00    $10.00
  111, 112

  Conference Rooms                         $20.00        $15.00       $5.00        $100.00    N/A
  113, 114

  Conference Rooms                         $30.00        $20.00       $10.00       $100.00    N/A
  115, 116

  Co-Op Community                          $75.00        $50.00       $25.00       $200.00    $25.00
  Lounge (non-exclusive
  use)

  Co-Op Center (all                        $500.00       $400.00      $400.00      $500.00    $50.00
  rooms, exclusive use)

Audiovisual equipment                      Daily Rate                              Deposit

  Flat Screen TV                           $25.00                                  $200.00
  Monitor (mobile)

  Projector                                $25.00                                  $200.00

  Laptop                                   $25.00                                  $200.00
  Microphone &                  $25.00                                           $200.00
  Speaker

  Podcast Equipment             $50.00                                           $200.00

Central Park Community          Hourly Rate                                      Deposit     Setup Fee
Center

                                Standard        Non-Profit       Resident

  Gymnasium                     $100.00         $50.00           $25.00          $200.00     $25.00



  Athletic field or court       $100.00         $75.00           $50.00          $200.00     N/A

Historic Scott School           Hourly rate                                      Deposit

                                Standard        Non-Profit       Resident

  Patio and Lawn                $50.00          $35.00           $25.00          $200.00     N/A

  Glenn Beeley Room             $50.00          $35.00           $25.00          $200.00     $10.00

  Art Studio                    $50.00          $35.00           $25.00          $200.00     N/A

All Buildings:
1. Security Service Fee - $50.00/hr per staff
2. Audiovisual tech support - $50.00/hr per staff
23. After Hours Fee - $200.00 per hour for use of the facility, in addition to rental fee.
34. Set Up Fee: Includes setup and take down of tables and chairs. Renters may set up own
furnishings at no cost.
                                      ORDINANCE NO. 2025-____


AN ORDINANCE OF THE SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL AMENDING THE 2025-2026
FISCAL YEAR BUDGET

        WHEREAS, the South Salt Lake City Council (the “Council”) met in regular session on August
13, 2025, to consider, among other things, amending the budget for the 2025-2026 fiscal year; and
         WHEREAS, Utah Code § 10-6-127 enables the City to review the individual budgets of the funds
set forth in the City’s budget; and
         WHEREAS, Utah Code § 10-6-128 allows the Council to adopt budget amendments by
resolution or ordinance following a public hearing; and
       WHEREAS, the Finance Director has prepared and filed with the City Recorder the proposed
amendments, which are attached to this ordinance and incorporated by this reference, and has submitted
the same to the Council for its review and for the public review; and
         WHEREAS, the amendments to the budget were the proper subject at a duly noticed public
hearing held on August 13, 2025, at which everyone in attendance was given the opportunity to be heard
for or against, amending the budget for the 2025-2026 fiscal year; and
        WHEREAS, the amendments conform to the requirements of the Utah Uniform Fiscal Procedures
Act and the Council finds it has satisfied all legal requirements required to amend a budget and that the
proposed budget amendment is in the best interest of the City;
        NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the City Council of the City of South Salt Lake as
follows:
SECTION I: ADOPTION OF AMENDMENTS. The budget amendments attached hereto as
EXHIBIT A and incorporated herein by this reference are hereby adopted and incorporated into the
budget for the City for the fiscal year commencing July 1, 2025 and ending June 30, 2026.
SECTION II: PUBLICATION AND FILING. Pursuant to Utah Code Ann. 10-6-118, a copy of the
Budget for each fund within the Budget shall be certified by the Budget Officer and it is hereby directed
that the Budget be filed with the State Auditor and in the Office of the City recorder and shall be available
to the public in accordance with the law.
SECTION III: SEVERANCE. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of this
ordinance is, for any reason, held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, such
provision shall be deemed a separate, distinct, and independent provision, and such holding shall not
affect the validity of the remaining portions of this ordinance.
SECTION IV. EFFECTIVE DATE. This ordinance shall become effective upon Mayor’s signature and
publication, or after fifteen days of transmission to the office of the Mayor if neither approved nor
disapproved by the Mayor, and thereafter, publication.


                                     (signatures appear on next page)
Dated this      day of ______________, 2025.


                                                        BY THE CITY COUNCIL:


                                                        ___________________________________
                                                        Sharla Bynum, Council Chair

ATTEST:


_____________________________________
Ariel Andrus, City Recorder


City Council Vote as Recorded:
Bynum
deWolfe
Huff
Mitchell
Sanchez
Thomas
Williams



Transmitted to the Mayor’s office on this      day of                      2025.



        Ariel Andrus, City Recorder


MAYOR’S ACTION:


Dated this              day of                          , 2025.



Cherie Wood, Mayor


ATTEST:


Ariel Andrus, City Recorder
                          EXHIBIT A
Amendments to the City of South Salt Lake Budget for the Fiscal
                      Year 2025-2026
